# Digital Weaver



A digital weaver is someone within an environment that enables the use of digital technology to automate and augment the weaving together of different phenomena for personal purposes.

It is an analogy for how to effectively get the most out of digital technologies, individually and beyond. Related to the idea of a [[digital-renovator]]. Both responding to the perception that ideas of [digital Visitors and Residents](http://tallblog.conted.ox.ac.uk/index.php/2009/10/14/visitors-residents-the-video/#) and digital literacy are incomplete. Ideas that fail to capture the lived experience of many with digital technologies. Ideas that may fail to recognise the [[affordances]] of digital technology as a protean metamedium (Kay, 1984). 

The weaving analogy arises from [recent work](../../sense/Paper-Ideas/gatherers-weavers-augmenters.md) that draws together personal experience with views of technology ([[drons-technology]]) and [[entangled-pedagogy]]. These views suggest that contemporary work is primarily about gathering and weaving together disparate strands (of phenomena, knowledge, activity, etc). That in a world where (just about) everything is in a digital form a key mechanism for automating (efficiency) and augmenting (transformation) work is digital technology. However, there is growing recognition (e.g. [RPA](../../share/blog/the-need-for-rpa-in-learning-teaching.md#introduction) and [[heavy-and-light-weight]] development) that given the diversity and complexity of contemporary work that effective and efficient gathering and weaving can't just be done at the enterprise level. Suggesting there needs to be capacity for gathering and weaving at smaller levels, perhaps at an individual level. That there is value for most people to have some capacity for digital weaving.

Experience suggests that most people don't have this capacity, yet. This arises in part because most traditional views of digital technology establish a clear line between developers (builders) and users. In particular within organisations.

The idea is that much of the work of a digital renovator is automating and augmenting the [gathering and weaving together](../CASA/bad_set-casa-gather-weave.md#gathering-weaving-and-epistemic-fluency) disparate strands.


## Related ideas

- One of the key aspects of the nature of digital technologies ([[nodt]]) is that they are _reprogrammable_ see [[programming-as-basic-literacy-skill]]
- But organisations - both producers and users of digital technologies - limit the _right to repair_. The ability for digital technologies to be adapted more effectively for specific purposes.
- Linked to the hierarchical, decomposition, atomistic method for understanding and action




[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[digital-renovator]: digital-renovator "Digital Renovator"
[affordances]: ../Affordances/affordances "Affordances"
[drons-technology]: ../nodt/drons-technology "Dron's take on technology"
[entangled-pedagogy]: ../Distribution/entangled-pedagogy "Entangled Pedagogy"
[heavy-and-light-weight]: ../nodt/heavy-and-light-weight "Heavy Weight and Light Weight Information Technology"
[nodt]: ../nodt/nodt "Nature of Digital Technology"
[programming-as-basic-literacy-skill]: programming-as-basic-literacy-skill "Programming as a basic literacy skill"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"