---
name: "Effective teaching"
type: note 
tags: [teaching, rtt]
---

See also: [[acu-rtt]]

Second module in the ACU Return to Teaching course. 

Through the [[APSTs]] connect into a repertoire of teaching approaches. Which appear to be an almost random collection of learning theories, pedagogical practices, specific approaches. 

Might have been useful to include more [[design-for-learning]] and [[evolution-of-design-for-learning]]. Also the Learning Sciences, evidence based practice etc are visibly absent - at least in the summary. Given their prevalence in debates - e.g. around PISA - this is a little surprising.

## Repertoire of teaching practices

### Constructivism

As explained is resonates somewhat with a [[design-for-learning]] approach. We learn through activities, perhaps changing/perhaps not our mental models. Teaching aims at understanding students' pre-existing conceptions and guides activity to build/change them.

But with a focus on problem-solving and inquiry-based learning activities. "Constructivism transforms the students from a passive recipient of information to an active partipant in the learning process"

*Critique:* this perspective has echoes of the straw man approach of the explicit teaching crowd and how they characterise non-explicit teaching methods. Echoes of the issues with [[not-how-bad-you-start]] and [[all-models-are-wrong]]

### Inquiry-based learning

As described here it is being positions as a high level pedagogy to match the philosophy of constructivism. Misc. video resources about school implementation.

### Scaffolding student learning

Nice analogy with ancient bridge building. Defines the Zone of Proximal Development and links.

### Providing feedback




### Play-based learning

### Cooperative teaching practices


### Teaching with ICT




## Assessment task

### Part 1

Choose FOUR of the contemporary approaches provided and 

- Define each of the approaches/issues in your own words;
- Identify how each relates to the professional issues

    i.e. clearly identify the standards and focus areas being discussed

### Part 2

Choose one of the teaching approaches and explain how you might use digital technologies to support your teaching and student learning. Include some description of context at the start.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[acu-rtt]: acu-rtt "acu-rtt"
[APSTs]: ..%2Fapsts "apsts"
[design-for-learning]: ..%2F..%2FDesign%2Fdesign-for-learning "Design for learning"
[evolution-of-design-for-learning]: ..%2F..%2FDesign%2Fevolution-of-design-for-learning "Evolution of design for learning"
[not-how-bad-you-start]: ..%2Fnot-how-bad-you-start "not-how-bad-you-start"
[all-models-are-wrong]: ..%2Fall-models-are-wrong "all-models-are-wrong"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"