---
title: Assemblage
type: note
tags: 
    - distribution
    - assemblage
---

See also: [[distribution]], [[bad]], [[assemblage-jones-2015]]

Origins with Deleuze and Guattari

- assemblage possibly better translated as "working arrangement" (Luik et al, 2018)

Muller (2015) starts with a definition from Deluze

> It is a multiplicity which is made up of many heterogeneous terms and which establishes liaisons, relations between them across ages, sexes and reigns – different natures. Thus, the assemblage’s only unity is that of co-functioning: it is a symbiosis, a ‘sympathy’.It is never filiations which are important but alliances, alloys; these are not successions, lines of descent, but contagions, epidemics, the wind. (Deleuze and Parnet 1987, 69 [1977])1 

And then offers this summary 

> In other words, assemblage is a mode of ordering heterogeneous entities so that they work together for a certain time. (p. 28)

## Critical elements

Luik et al (2018) identify two critical elements from Deleuze

1. Heterogeneity of the parts
2. interactions of those parts and their intensificiation of each other

Luik et al (2018)

> ...assemblage is not merely a form of content consisting of a collection of different objects, but a collection of *interactions* in their midst, evoking, as its form of expression, a new sythensised power greater than the sum of its parts (p. 1271)

## Key concepts

### Formalisation

> a point of attention in using assemblage...is formalisation, which can be used to understand what keeps the assemblage intact and what can transform it. (Luik et al, 2018, p. 1271)

Two formalisations in Deluzian terms of assemblage.  The assemblage is the productive intersection of them

1. form of content - actions, bodies and things
2. form of expression - affects, words, ideas

These are interdependent and irreducible. Content is not a thing, but a complex state of "things, bodies and action".  Expression is not words, but "a set of statements, discources and ideas arising in the social field"

### Configuration of bodies

Assemblages include objects of all types. Human, object, and immaterial. It is not static. Composed of the relations amongst the *capacities* of the various components/parts.

### Co-functioning

Is what holds the assemblage together. It's only unity. A symbiosis or sympathy.

It's not formal or legal connections that are important. But the alliances, allows. It is changeable, fleshly, inconstant. Fluid, ephemeral and unpredictable.

#### Check out

- sociotechnical assemblage [40]
- sociomaterial assemblage [36]
- data assemblage [24]

- [Hannon's bit](https://ajet.org.au/index.php/AJET/article/view/1178/406)
 
## References

Luik, J., Ng, J., & Hook, J. (2018). "More than just Space": Designing to Support Assemblage in Virtual Creative Hubs. *Proceedings of the 2018 Designing Interactive Systems Conference*, 1269--1281\. <https://doi.org/10.1145/3196709.3196758>

Müller, M. (2015). Assemblages and Actor-networks: Rethinking Socio-material Power, Politics and Space. *Geography Compass*, *9*(1), 27--41. <https://doi.org/10.1111/gec3.12192>

## Related bubbles

- [[distribution]]


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[distribution]: distribution "Distribution"
[bad]: ../CASA/bad "BAD - Bricolage Affordances Distribution"
[assemblage-jones-2015]: assemblage-jones-2015 "Assemblage (Jones, 2015)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"