---
title: Boundary objects
type: "note"
tags: distribution, bricolage, concepts
---

See also: [[concepts]]

> An important concept - I feel for BAD - particular D - but which I've yet to get my head around

## Star (2010)

Three components to boundary objects

1. Interpretive flexibility

    e.g. a map may be used by different groups/purposes, it will reveal different insights. "Difference depends on the use and interpretation of the object."
2. The structure of informatic and work process needs and arrangements
3. dynamic between ill-structured and more tailored uses of these objects

In this context _boundary_ is intended to "to mean a shared space, where exactly that sense of here and there are confounded" (pp. 602-603)

## Brown (2016) writing on boundary objects

> Boundary objects are “a sort of arrangement that allow different groups to work together without consensus” (Star, 2010, p. 602). Boundary objects offer interpretive flexibility and exist to address the information needs of multiple groups of stakeholders (Star & Griesemer, 1989). The classic example of a boundary object is a map. Identical maps may serve as a road map to one group, providing directions to a campground (Star, 2010). For another set of users, the same map identifies geological sites for data collection (Star, 2010). The map is, in effect, an infrastructure in which information with a variety of applications is encoded. The utility of the map to the user is in its interpretive flexibility (Star, 2010).

> To move between viewpoints, organizations need boundary objects (Akkerman & Bakker, 2011). Boundary objects are broadly constructed in general use, but strongly constructed in individual site use (Star & Griesemer, 1989). The boundary in BIP is the shared problem space that results in coordinating online tools for instruction (Star, 2010). This problem space is shared by: instructors, curriculum developers, software developers, instructional technologists, information technology professionals, students, and a host of other stakeholders. BIP is a prototypical boundary object because it creates an organic infrastructure between multiple communities of practice to facilitate organizational work (Norberg et al., 2011; for an example of a boundary object in BIP see Laumakis, Graham, & Dziuban, 2009).

> One of the primary ways that coordination of boundary crossing occurs is through the creation of infrastructure to support practice (Star & Ruhleder, 1996).

## Blended Instructional Practice - boundary objects

Brown (2016) makes the case that Blended Instructional Practice (BIP) 

> In this way, BIP exists at the intersections of multiple communities of practice, what has been termed in the literature a boundary object (Norberg et al., 2011)

Giving examples such as

- instructors move between instructional and technological systems
- organisation level - "refers to the organic communicative infrastructure of interlocking routines that facilitate instructional activities that use online tools"
- individual level - "refers to the individual translations within the system where instrutors assemble a prescribed curriculum and configure online instructional tools into an enacted teaching performance"

## References

Brown, M. G. (2016). Blended instructional practice: A review of the empirical literature on instructors' adoption and use of online tools in face-to-face teaching. *The Internet and Higher Education*, *31*, 1--10\. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iheduc.2016.05.001>

Leigh Star, S. (2010). This is Not a Boundary Object: Reflections on the Origin of a Concept. *Science, Technology, & Human Values*, *35*(5), 601--617\. <https://doi.org/10.1177/0162243910377624>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[concepts]: ../concepts/concepts "Concepts"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"