---
title: Subsidiarity
type: note
tags: bad, distribution 
---

See also: [[distribution]]

An idea I was introduced to by [Col Beer's blog post](https://beerc.wordpress.com/2025/03/14/subsidiarity/). An idea which resonates with the [[distribution]] aspect of the [[bad]] mindset, and which likely suffers the same challenges. Col offers the following definition:

> The principle of subsidiarity is simple and asserts that decisions should be made at the lowest possible level of governance that can effectively address a given issue (Garrick et al., 2011). Subsidiarity involves the transfer of responsibility and authority from higher management to employees, facilitating greater ownership of tasks and contextual informed decision-making processes

Having worked through some thoughts below, it strikes me that _subsidiarity_ suffers the same challenge as ideas like the [[bad]] mindset. A challenge arising from the complexity of action within a complex environment leading and the tendency for organisations to handle that by adopting less that effective outcomes/practices that are accepted as implementable proxies. For example, completing a quality checklist is easier than actually demonstrating the quality in 1000+ courses. Another example is the bastardisation of agile software development into the bastardised corporate practice SCRUM has become.

Implementing something like _subsidiarity_ across an organisation is likely suffer the same fate. The complexity of successful implementation would be just too hard leading to proxy practices that are ineffective, but easy to implement. _Subsidiarity_ (like the [[bad]] mindset) faces the additional complexity that arises from being based on a philosophy directly opposite to that used by most contemporary organisations. Especially in times of financial constraint and within a less than friendly environment.

## The competence problem in a complex environment

Another [definition of subsidiarity](https://quickonomics.com/terms/subsidiarity/) is (emphasis added):

> Subsidiarity is a principle relevant in fields like politics, economics, and social issues. It dictates that matters should be handled by the smallest, lowest, or least centralized **competent** authority.

I've emphasised _competent_ in the above definition because it immediately strikes me as a significant challenge to subsidiarity. A challenge both Col and I have faced in our organisational experience. It's a challenge that has increased significantly within Australian higher education over the last 30 years due to numerous factors, including:

- An increasing compliance culture.

    Where competence isn't the primary driver of decision-making, but rather the need to comply with external regulations and standards. In theory it is important that there be some sort of quality/compliance check. But truly demonstrating compliance in ways that engage with the realities of organisations is too difficult and expensive. Hence the rise of box ticking.

- An increase in non-academic staff.

    An increase that has been arguably required, but which comes with an increasing tendency to locate expertise within the centralised organisational unit to which those staff belong. Meaning the organisation assumes that competence in any given area (e.g. software development) resides within that organisational unit. No-one else should be involved.

- The rise of the strategic planning and the professional manager on 5 year contracts.

    Almost every manger (aka "leader") in an Australian university is on a short-term contract. Their current and future employment relying on successful completion of specific projects. Many aim for these projects to make meaningful contextual improvements, but achieving and measuring such success is difficult. Hence success being more about being seen to complete a project by some arbitrary measure, rather than the positive outcomes that project generated.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[distribution]: distribution "Distribution"
[bad]: ../CASA/bad "BAD - Bricolage Affordances Distribution"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"