<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
 published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
 License, or (at your option) any later version.
 
 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
 along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Canvas Collections

See also: [[casa]]

[Canvas Collections](https://djplaner.github.io/canvas-collections/){:target="_blank"} is a Svelte application designed to address long-term limitations in the Canvas LMS' modules index page. The modules index page is Canvas' primary method for organising a course's learning activities and resources. Canvas Collections provides the ability to add more structure, visuals, and context to the modules index page.

Originally developed whilst working at Griffith University it has subsequently been released under the GPLv3. Released to the wild in August 2023.

## Mentions 

### Nice write up from [_EdTech must reads_](https://edtechmustreads.substack.com/p/edtech-must-reads-1f9)

> People who know me well will know that I have some opinions about the Canvas LMS and its highly linear structure, but this blog post from David Jones (Griffith) about an open source tool that they have developed makes me think there might be hope for it yet. In a nutshell, it allows users to add a basic nav bar and cluster modules into a few collections. Visual information about modules can be added, with other basic course information - dates, summary details and coming soon information about unpublished modules. 
> I will, naturally, add the relevant disclaimers that any modifications/customisations come with an element of risk the next time the official version of the platform is updated - and the more changes you make, the greater the risk - so talk to your Ed Tech team to see if Canvas Collections is right for you. (But it does look kind of cool)


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[casa]: ../casa "Contextually Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"