# Bricolagogy

See also: [[bricolage]], [[my-teaching-philosophy]]

Dron and Anderson (2022) provide an overview of "pedagogical paradigms". Documenting a shift beyond the traditional paradigms - objectivist (behaviourist/cognitivist), subjectivists (social constructivist), and complexivist (connectivist) - to include three-free and theory agnostic paradigms.  The theory agnostic paradigm is defined as _bricolagogy_.

Driven by the increasing need of learning being about charting and wayfinding "in a cornucopia of information, competing values, and incompatible world-views" (p. 13), there is an increasing need for the ability to critically and reflectively choose the most appropriate pedagogies for the task at hand - the act of [[bricolage]].

Campbell et al (2020) offer this related sports analogy in the context of designing learning interventions for a [[growth-mindset]]

> We agree with Begg [30] that learning theories do not provide ‘the truth’ about how learning happens but provide insight into how learning happens. So, similar to how an understanding of different sports can help us choose what to play to achieve specific fitness goals, a knowledge of learning theories can help us choose learning activities to achieve learning goals. It is possible to use different theories of learning in combination. Examining the alignment of our learning theories with our learning goals should help us design activities to develop growth mindsets that are more robust and effective than if designed only from intuition. (p. 30)

Further, Campbell et al (2020) suggest

> We do not see learning theories as restricting educators to identify most strongly with one theory that they use exclusively.While this may happen, it is more likely that different circumstances call for different approaches based in different theories. (p. 32)


## References

Campbell, A., Craig, T., & Collier-Reed, B. (2020). A framework for using learning theories to inform 'growth mindset' activities. *International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology*, *51*(1), 26--43. <https://doi.org/10.1080/0020739X.2018.1562118>

Dron, J., & Anderson, T. (2022). Pedagogical Paradigms in Open and Distance Education. In *Handbook of Open, Distance and Digital Education* (pp. 1--17). Springer. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-0351-9\_9-1](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-0351-9_9-1)



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[bricolage]: bricolage "Bricolage"
[my-teaching-philosophy]: ../Teaching/my-teaching-philosophy "My Teaching Philosophy"
[growth-mindset]: ../Teaching/Mathematics/growth-mindset "Growth Mindset"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"