---
title: The SET mindset
type: note[[bad-mindset]]
tags:
   - SET
   - BAD
   - CASA
---

See also: [[bad-mindset]], [[bricolage]], [[strategic-planning]], [[systemism]]

We argued that the _SET mindset_ is the primary contemporary way to answering three  (of the many) inter-related questions about the implementation of e-learning ([Jones & Clark, 2014](https://djon.es/blog/2014/09/21/breaking-bad-to-bridge-the-realityrhetoric-chasm/)). Perhaps because this mindset is the dominant way of answering these questions in contemporary neo-liberal society.

Our experience suggested that the SET mindset has numerous limitations. Limitations which we spent most of our work life trying to overcome. That work seemed to be informed by an alternate way of answering the same questions. A way we labelled the [[bad-mindset]].

!!! note "Acronyms at work"

   These are Acronyms

   - **S**trategy
   - **E**stablished
   - **T**ree-like

   versus

   - **B**ricolage
   - **A**ffordances
   - **D**istributed


1. What work gets done?
   **S**trategy - following a global plan intended to achieve a pre-identified desired future state.
2. How are digital technologies percieved?
   **E**stablished - Digital technologies are hard. They cannot be changed. People and their practices must be modified to fit the fixed functionality of the technology.
3. How is the institution perceived?
   **T**ree-like - the world is relatively stable and predictable. It can be understood through logical decomposition into a hierarchy of distinct black boxes.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[bad-mindset]: ../CASA/bad-mindset "The BAD (Bricolage, Affordances, Distribution) mindset"
[bricolage]: bricolage "Bricolage"
[strategic-planning]: strategic-planning "Strategic Planning"
[systemism]: ../Research/systemism "Systemism"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"