# Scaleless and Placeless

## Where I heard it

Phrase used by [Peter Calthorpe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Calthorpe) in [this Long Now Foundation seminar](https://longnow.org/seminars/02020/jul/14/urban-planet-ecology-community-and-growth-through-next-century/) to describe the type of high-rise urban housing built in the mid to late 20th Century in America.

## Why did it resonate?

The commmon digital education spaces created in contemporary higher education strike me as increasingly
- **placeless**; and,
> Indistinguishable from other places. Devoid of the character of its purpose, people, discipline. 
- **scaleless**
> Unable to respond well enough to the needs of individuals and small groups.
    
## What forces contribute to this?

Vanilla-isation forces including:

- consistent institutional, marketing-driven livery;
- digital technologies designed by vendors to be used (as cheaply as possible) by everyone; and,
- the mantra of corporate management and information technology folk that "any solution has to scale". i.e. be usable cheaply by the broadest possible number of people. 

It strikes me that each of the vanilla-isation forces are built upon numerous "common-sense" principles, including (but not limited to)
- *consistency*;
> "to scale" in part means minimising support resources. Which - following "common-sense" - that everything looking the same (i.e. *consistent*) is a good thing because this minimises confusion which minimises support costs.
- *sterile* (Zittrain) or *hard* (Dron) technology.
> i.e. technologies that can't be changed by people who aren't allowed to. With the move to cloud-hosted services the population of "allowed" people is diminishingly small. Also Zittrain's point about generative technologies - that can be changed - raising costs/dangers.

But the narrow focus of "in my box" means that the bigger picture is lost. i.e. that the resulting learning environments are scaleless and placeless. The emergent properties that rise from all these common-sense decisions are lost. At least to those not directly involved in the day to day use of these digital spaces.

## What does placeless and scaleless look like in digital education?

To be continued, but some earlier ideas, include

- [Starvation](https://djon.es/blog/2012/04/01/learning-analytics-starvation-and-telling-us-what-we-already-know/)
- [Workarounds](https://djon.es/blog/2019/12/20/theory-of-workarounds/)

## References

There's gotta be some good stuff out there.

## Related bubbles

- [[bricolage]] [[affordances]] [[distribution]]
- [[set-mindset]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[bricolage]: ../bricolage "Bricolage"
[affordances]: ../affordances "Affordances"
[distribution]: ../distribution "Distribution"
[set-mindset]: ../Bricolage/set-mindset "SET Mindset"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"