---
title: Landscape Design with Sketchup
type: "note"
tags: sense, landscape, garden, sketchup
---

See also: [[regeneration]], [[using-sketchup]]

Sketchup is a tool for creating geometry.

## Nascent process

From the Sketchup landscape design course

1. Base modeling 
2. Terrain & grading 
3. Materials & textures 
4. Site furnishings & entourage 
5. Vegetation 
6. Context modeling
7. Optimisation, collaboration and revisions

The above represents starting from a flatish base layer and working up.

1. Start in 2D
2. Geolocate 
    - Use the feature and then perform tidy ups e.g 
      - Explore using the terrain map as the working space 
      - Hide/reveal the satellite image as required
3. Improve the terrain 
4. Add established features 

    - e.g. build 3d models of existing buildings and plants

## Practice

- [[sketchup-fundamentals-practice]] - results of Sketchup practice course

## Process ideas

1. Start in 2D

    Use the 2D view to give a top-down view to start.

2. Group almost everything, group early

## Concepts

Geometry created in Sketchup consists of three things: endpoints; edges; faces. Most features are focused on changing some combination of these.

## Developing a homestead model

Aim is to practice the process by providing a model we can use to aid our design work for the homestead.

Requirements/functionality:

- Develop a process for creating a model, including objects
- Terrain, including dams, berms/swales and general land contours 
- Using views and shadows to design new additions.
- practice generating various design (planning) outputs

### Process

- Use the "landscape metres" template
- Switch to top down view
- Use locate feature and configure 
  - High mesh density 
  - Change to _Digital Globe_ image provider (more recent image)
- Boundary information 
  - Source information from [Queensland globe](https://qldglobe.information.qld.gov.au/)
  - Create a 2d surface for the boundary (check the entity info for square metres for approximate check)
    This approach is manual, would be better to be able to do an import.
  - Make surface opaque by editing _View / Face style / x-ray_ 
  - Alternatively import PDF plans, scale, and then map over the top
- Other sources
    - [Elvis - elevation and depth - foundation spatial data](https://elevation.fsdf.org.au/) - not that useful, order offline data 
    - [Queensland Globe](https://qldglobe.information.qld.gov.au/) more update to date than following
    - [Historical Queensland Property Boundaries](https://eatlas.org.au/content/qld-dnrm-property-boundaries)

        Description and link to service that can provide historical (2016) property boundaries

  At this stage, two new tags/layers are created. 2d and 3d.


Misc tasks

1. Create surface from location import
2. How to limit that surface to a specific area



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[regeneration]: regeneration "Bush regeneration (Wood duck meadows)"
[using-sketchup]: using-sketchup "Using Sketchup"
[sketchup-fundamentals-practice]: sketchup-fundamentals-practice "Sketchup Fundamentals and Practice"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"