---
title: "The Island"
type: "note"
tags: gardens, sense, landscape
---

See also: [[wood-duck-meadows]]

_The Island_ is a man made island crafted by the property's dam and the earthworks that direct run-off into the dam. It is at least 500 square metres. 

A previous owner had spent had placed irrigation on the island and planted numerous plants including: a [Bunya pine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Araucaria_bidwillii); [Maruritius-hemp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Furcraea_foetida); bamboo, and, a [Paperbark tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melaleuca_quinquenervia) amongst other things. However, for sometime the island had been ignored and suffered during drought seasons. The bamboo and paperbark have died. With climbing asparagus having taken over most of the island and making it all but impassable.

!!! info "Current status"

    We're embarking on a regeneration project for the island.

## Design ideation

Early thoughts include:

- A focus on native plants creating a habitat for local wildlife.
- Increased blocking of the neighbours and the highway.
- Providing a space for sitting to look back at the house.
- Creating a [[dry-rainforest]] like setting in the middle of the island for shade and the ecosystem benefits.

## Clearing weeds and unwanted vegetation

The first step was getting rid of the climbing asparagus and other unwanted plants. Mostly done by hand.

Following image shows progress from an early stage where some bamboo and Asparagus fern had been removed. Though with large amounts still visible climbing up the trees and just about anything else. In the _how it's going_ image the house and the Mauritius hemp are now visible.

<figure markdown="span">
![A comparison of clearing on the island. The "how it started" image shows a small number of trees largely overtaken by asparagus fern. With only a the odd trunk and branch visible. The "how it's going" image shows the same trees (and Mauritius hemp) now almost entirely visible. The house is also visible.](images/early-clearing.jpg)
<figcaption>Early clearing progress</figcaption>
</figure>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[wood-duck-meadows]: wood-duck-meadows "Wood duck meadows"
[dry-rainforest]: dry-rainforest "Dry Rainforest"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"