---
title: Contributing to Foam
type: note
tags:
    - foam
    - colophon
    - FLOSS
---

See also: [[foam-dev]], [[colophon]], [[floss]]

[Foam](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/) is a VSCode extension and open source project that supports PKM practices. Foam is key to maintaining this site. The plan here is to try and contribute back to the Foam community through engaging in some development.

## To do

- [ ] Is my TypeScript knowledge sufficient?
- [x] Contribute a mod to the [contribution guide](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/dev/contribution-guide) to updating the link to how to contribute to an open source project.

## Learning

The first step will be to learn more about the requirements for contributions. In particular, the technical requirements (can I do it?). But also being aware of Foam's [principles](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/principles#foam-is-for-hackers-not-only-for-programmers) and [code of conduct](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/dev/code-of-conduct). The Foam [contribution guide](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/dev/contribution-guide) provides more specific advice, including:

### A guide to contributing to OS projects - my first contribution

The original link has [related here](https://blog.robsewell.com/blog/how-to-fork-a-github-repository-and-contribute-to-an-open-source-project/). An opportunity to contribute already? Which requires following the process.

- [x] Fork the repository
- [x] Clone the repository
- [x] Create a new branch
- [x] Push branch
- [x] Create a pull request

First contribution made. How quickly the pull request is processed by the project will be an early indication of the community.

## Creating a build environment

With the repo installed locally, the next step is to install all the necessary dependencies for development.

- Update yarn and other local `brew` packages
- Install the dependencies with `yarn install`
- Build the project with `yarn build`

Done.

Do a build, but there's a fail.


## Learning more about VSCode extension development

### VSCode extension documentation

### [Your first extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/get-started/your-first-extension)

`src/extension.ts` is the entry point for the extension. The `package.json` file contains the metadata for the extension, including the activation events and commands.

Default VSCode debug can work from there.

### [Extension anatomy](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/get-started/extension-anatomy)

Extensions use an event driven architecture. e.g. commands. 

Commands defined in `package.json` (the extension manifest) are registered in the `activate` function in `src/extension.ts`. The `activate` function is called when the extension is activated, which can be triggered by various events, such as opening a file or executing a command.

Central concepts

- Activation events - what events will activate your extension, JSON declarations made in the extension manifest (package.json)  
- Contribution points - the ways in which your extension contributes to existing VSCode functionality (also defined in the extension manifest)
- VS Code API - set of Javascript APIs your extension can invoke

## Understanding the Foam codebase

Combined the above and other information to explore in detail the Foam codebase - [[understanding-foam-code-base]]


## Starting to make changes

- Issues labelled [good first issue](https://github.com/foambubble/foam/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22good%20first%20issue%22)


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[foam-dev]: foam-dev "Explorations in Foam development"
[colophon]: ../../../colophon/colophon "About (Colophon)"
[floss]: ../../computing/floss "FLOSS and FOSS"
[understanding-foam-code-base]: foam-code/understanding-foam-code-base "Understanding the Foam Code Base"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"