---
title: Correct links to Foam documentation
type: note
tags:
    - foam
---



While working on [[generate-material-for-mkdocs-site]] a number of links in the Foam documentation were found to be broken. Thanks to `mkdocs` build process and the `RoamLinks` plugin. Aim is to see if these can be corrected.

## Unresolved issues

### use of dummy wikilink defitions

A few instances where wikilinks are used in documentation e.g. `[[some-wikilink]]`. These are quoted, are not meant to be real links, and there is no matching match.

link, links, wikilink, `[[`, wikilinks, mediawiki, github-pages, note-b, note-a, notes, note...lots in wikilinks-in-foam

[[book]] in tags.md that isn't quoted.

also autolink module: `[your link..](other-file)`

!!! question "How to escape braces in Markdown?"

### Use of "to be done" pages

Documentation also includes a long list of wikilinks that are intended for later filling out.


### Out of date roadmap

Some items shouldn't be there e.g. link to a GitHub issue that has been "closed as not planned". Not to mention various "to be done" pages.

### Built for local preview, not publishing

INFO    -  Doc file 'user/features/tags.md' contains a link to '.vscode/custom-tag-style.css' which is excluded from

### RoamLinks oversites

e.g.  "capture-notes-with-drafts-pro" includes some javascript code that is fence posted, but includes a wikilink. RoamLinks isn't ignoring it.

Similar

- math-support-with-mathjax.md

### intentional missing wikilinks

`[[placeholder]]` to illustrate various Foam presentations.

## Output log

WARNING -  Doc file 'user/getting-started/write-notes-in-foam.md' contains a link '../../attachments/foam-icon.png',
           but the target 'attachments/foam-icon.png' is not found among documentation files.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[generate-material-for-mkdocs-site]: generate-material-for-mkdocs-site "Generate material for MkDocs site"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"