---
backlinks:
- title: Seek
  url: /memex/seek/seek.html
- title: Note taking strategies
  url: /memex/colophon/note-taking-strategies.html
- title: FLOSS and FOSS
  url: /memex/sense/computing/floss.html
- title: Web development
  url: /memex/sense/Web-development/web-development.html
- title: 'SvelteKit and Github pages '
  url: /memex/sense/Web-development/foam-dev/sveltekit-github-pages.html
tags:
- foam
- web-development
- colophon
title: Explorations in Foam development
type: note
---
## About

[Foam](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/) is a key tool used to maintain this site. Much of the design thinking and implementation of this site is covered in the [[colophon|About page]]. This page now documents experiments with various technologies that might be used with Foam/Mkdocs.

!!! note "Original purpose - Svelte" 

    Originally this section's purpose was 
    
        ...to explore if and how I might enhance/transform how I do that using Svelte/SvelteKit. Hopefully fulfilling two aims

    I've since lost my Svelte "fetish" and focusing more now on Python and static site generation using MkDocs.

    FWIW, early steps with Svelte started with [[sveltekit-github-pages]]

## Evolving thinking

Foam is increasingly looking like being primarily an authoring tool with some local preview and some in-built ability to publish a static site. It is used in many different ways, some for which local preview is sufficient. If - like me - you're wanting a more sophisticated website as the result of using Foam, then you need to spend a fair bit of work with a static site generator (Gatsby, MkDocs etc). People will use different SSGs.

There's a tradeoff in the complexity of Foam functionality and the flexibility to use a variety of external tools. Perhaps Foam functinality should

1. Focus on authoring and local preview, and
2. Support a variety of SSGs for publishing.

This appears to align with the ["Foam helps you share your thoughts"](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/principles#foam-helps-you-share-your-thoughts-with-the-world) principle. Also the ["Foam enables you to do your best thinking"](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/principles#foam-enables-you-to-do-your-best-thinking) principle that includes the points: Foam is a starting point and many others.

## Experiments

- [[charts-and-images-with-python]]
- [[contributing-to-foam]]
- [[generate-material-for-mkdocs-site]]
- [[correct-links-foam-docmentation]]
- [[markdown-manipulation]]

## Foam's conceptual model

@jevakillio (2020) "There is no one Foam Method". Foam offers partial support for the Zettelkasten method, but isn't prescriptive.

### Relationship between tags and wikilinks?

Early discussion (2020) has people using wikilinks, not so much tags.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[colophon|About page]: ../../../colophon/colophon "Colophon"
[charts-and-images-with-python]: charts-and-images-with-python "Charts and images with Python"
[contributing-to-foam]: contributing-to-foam "Contributing to Foam"
[generate-material-for-mkdocs-site]: generate-material-for-mkdocs-site "Generate material for MkDocs site"
[correct-links-foam-docmentation]: correct-links-foam-docmentation "Correct links to Foam documentation"
[markdown-manipulation]: markdown-manipulation "Markdown Manipulation"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"