---
title: "Declarative and procedural knowledge"
type: "note"
tags: concept, learning, knowledge
---

See also: [[concepts]]

There are different approaches used to describe different types of knowledge. Separation into [_declartive knowledge_](#declarative-knowledge) and [_procedural knowledge_](#procedural-knowledge) is one approach. Some have added _conditional_ knowledge grouping together metacognitive knowledge and beliefs.

Saks et al (2021, p. 2)

> The development of procedural knowledge is related to the development of declarative knowledge. Most learning occurs through a combination of declarative and procedural memory. Declarative knowledge is proceduralised through practice, which makes it possible to make connections between these two types of knowledge. Adaptive control of thought–rational (ACT-R) theory [17] describes the knowledge transition from a declarative to a procedural form. However, procedural and declarative knowledge may also be acquired separately, independently of each other.

## Declarative knowledge 

(aka descriptive, formal, propositional knowledge, or knowing-that)

Saks et al (2021, p. 2)

> Declarative knowledge (also called descriptive, formal, or propositional knowledge or knowing-that) refers to facts or information stored in the memory and is, therefore, sometimes called declarative memory [10]. It is considered static in nature. Declarative knowledge describes things, events, and processes, and their relation to each other. According to Berge and Hezewijk [10] and Tulving [11], declarative knowledge is not conscious until it is retrieved by cues. The retrieval of declarative knowledge requires meaningful cues and directed attention and even then, may retrieve only a limited amount of potentially available information.

## Procedural knowledge 

(aka practical knowledge or knowing-how)

Saks et al (2021, p. 2)

> Procedural knowledge (also called practical knowledge or knowing-how) involves an individual’s skill and ability to accomplish an activity using certain strategies. Fenstermacher [14] defines it as the knowledge that the individual generates as a result of his experiences and his reflections on these experiences. Unlike declarative knowledge, procedural knowledge is not easily articulated since it is typically unconscious or tacit [15]. Star [16] distinguishes superficial- and deep-level procedural knowledge; the former is associated with rote learning, reproduction, and trial and error, while the latter is associated with comprehension, flexibility, and metacognitive knowledge, such as critical judgement [16].



## References

Saks, K., Ilves, H., & Noppel, A. (2021). The Impact of Procedural Knowledge on the Formation of Declarative Knowledge: How Accomplishing Activities Designed for Developing Learning Skills Impacts Teachers' Knowledge of Learning Skills. *Education Sciences*, *11*(10), Article 10. <https://doi.org/10.3390/educsci11100598>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[concepts]: concepts "Concepts"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"