---
title: Affordances of digital technology
type: note
tags:
    - nodt
    - digital-technology
---

See also: [[affordances]], [[bad-mindset]]

The [[bad-mindset]] mindset includes the nascent idea of [_the affordance mindset_](https://djon.es/blog/2014/11/07/established-versus-affordances-part-of-the-reason-institutional-e-learning-is-like-teenage-sex/#the-affordance-mindset). A mindset that 

- knows that digital technologies can be changed; and,
- sees value in changing digital technologies to suit the purposes of the people using it.

Echoing Kay's (1984) discussion of the "[[protean]] nature of the computer" (p. 59) as "the first metamedium, and as such has degrees of freedom and expression never before encountered". 

There are two challenges to this mindset:

1. The contemporary environment positions digital technologies as _established_ (aka fixed.)

    Changing digital technologies is seen as costly (shadow systems are inefficient), difficulty, dangerous (cyber-security), and increasingly illegal (see growing arguments over the right to repair). Only those approved by the organisation or the vendor can change digital technologies. Increasingly, the digital technology departments within organisations are relationship managers, not developers.

2. Changing digital technologies is harder than it should be.

    Leaving aside the environment digital technology is "biased toward those with the capacity to write code" (Rushkoff, 2010, p. 128). For many, coding remains a step too far. Either in terms of inherent difficulty, available time, or perhaps due to [the 1% rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1%25_rule).


## References

Kay, A. (1984). Computer Software. *Scientific American*, *251*(3), 53--59.

Norman, D. A. (2002). *The design of everyday things* (1st Basic paperback). Basic Books.

Rushkoff, D. (2010). *Program or be programmed: Ten commands for a digital age*. OR Books.

## Path

- [[automation]]

- [[educational-technology-what-is-it-and-how-it-works]]
- [[assemblage-jones-2015]]
- [[why-the-web-scales]]
- [[homogenisation-represent-processes-in-machines-that-can-interpret-those-representations]]
- [[conviviality]]
- [[kafkaesque-and-orwellian-technology-design]]
- [[higher-education-use-of-cloud-systems]]


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[affordances]: affordances "Affordances"
[bad-mindset]: ../CASA/bad-mindset "The BAD (Bricolage, Affordances, Distribution) mindset"
[protean]: ../concepts/protean "Protean"
[automation]: automation "Automation"
[educational-technology-what-is-it-and-how-it-works]: educational-technology-what-is-it-and-how-it-works "Educational technology: what is it and how it works"
[assemblage-jones-2015]: ../Distribution/assemblage-jones-2015 "Assemblage (Jones, 2015)"
[why-the-web-scales]: why-the-web-scales "Why the web scales"
[homogenisation-represent-processes-in-machines-that-can-interpret-those-representations]: homogenisation-represent-processes-in-machines-that-can-interpret-those-representations "Homogenisation - represent processes in machines that can interpret those representations"
[conviviality]: conviviality "Convivality"
[kafkaesque-and-orwellian-technology-design]: ../kafkaesque-and-orwellian-technology-design "Kafkaesque and Orwellian Technology Design"
[higher-education-use-of-cloud-systems]: higher-education-use-of-cloud-systems "higher-education-use-of-cloud-systems"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"