# When to use accordions

[detailed look at when](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/accordions-complex-content/) to use accordions

## Definition

> An accordion menu is a vertically stacked list of headers that can be clicked to reveal or hide content associated with them. It is one of many ways you can expose content to users in a progressive manner. 

## Rationale and benefit

> Allowing people to have control over the content by expanding it or deferring it for later lets them decide what to read and what to ignore. Giving people control is #3 on the list of the top heuristics for usable design. In theory, this concept sounds reasonably human centered.

### Advantages

> - Collapsing the page minimizes scrolling.
> - The headings serve as a mini-IA of the page. This allows users to form a mental model of the information available. 
> - Hiding (some of) the content can make the web page appear less daunting. 
> - Accordions can be a better alternative to within-page links, which are problematic because they break people’s mental model for hypertext links. People expect clicking a link will load a new page. Without proper cues people are confused about where they are on the site.

## Issues

> - Forcing people to click on headings one at a time to display full content can be cumbersome,
> - Accordionds increase interaction cost
> - Hiding content behind navigation diminishes people's awareness of it 
> - Accessibility is an important consideration
> - Printing

## Related categories

- [[web-development]]



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[web-development]: ../web-development "Web development"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"