---
title: Dual coding
---

Multiple representations of the same information enhances learning and memory. Some information automatically evokes other representations (e.g. _dog_ evokes a visual etc) which also has the same benefit. Other work suggest adding motor movements also provides benefit.

Dual coding suggests the verbal information should be accompanied by a visual representation (see [[checks-for-pedagogy]]). With consideration given that additional representations can increase cognitive load. 

## Advice to students

Informed by Mayer & Anderson (1992)

How to do it

- Find visuals in class materials. Compare visuals to words.
- Look at visuals, explain in own words what they mean. 
- Take information that you are trying to learn, and draw visuals to go along with it. 
- Come up with different ways to represent the information visually.
- Be able to draw from memory


## References

Mayer, R., & Anderson, R. (1992). The Instructive Animation: Helping Students Build Connections Between Words and Pictures in Multimedia Learning. *Journal of Educational Psychology*, *84*(4), 444--452.

Weinstein, Y., Madan, C. R., & Sumeracki, M. A. (2018). Teaching the science of learning. *Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications*, *3*(1), 2. <https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-017-0087-y>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[checks-for-pedagogy]: ../Teaching/Mathematics/checks-for-pedagogy "Checks for pedagogy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"