---
title: No title found
---
<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This file is part of memex.
 
 memex is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.
 
 memex is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with memex.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Spaced practice (aka Distributed Practice)



## Definition

Consider two approaches to studying

1. Single session "cram"

    Spend a one-off, fixed amount of time (X) repeatedly studying the same information. 

2. Spaced practice.

    Spend the same amount of time (X) studying the same informtion, but space it out over a longer period of time. Re-covering the same material over time.

The second leads to greater retention of material.

However, students may feel less confident while using spaced practice. It is felt as being more difficult. Perhaps because of the weakening of retrieval strength.

The optimal ideal delay between two sessions is complex and contingent. 

Teachers would benefit from more guidance and technologies (broadly defined) to help plan spaced practice. Also an area for further research.

## Explanation

### Theory of disuse

Weinstein et al (2018) cite the "new theory of disuse" (Bjork & Bjork, 1992) to offer the following explanation.

Memory as both _retrieval_ (ease of recall, which can be measured) and _storage_ (extent it is stored in the mind, not measurable) strength. Studying provides a boost to both. The _cram_ method contributes to high retrieval strength, but low storage strength. As repeated studying tends to build retrieval strength. Spaced practice lets retreival strength wane in order to improve retrieval strength.

## Teaching Strategies

### 1. Create opportunities to revisit information throughout the term.

Examples

- [[productive-failure]] - problem phase is designed to levarage and re-apply existing knowledge.

### 2. Encourage students

e.g. below.


## Student learning strategies

- start planning early for exams and spread study over a longer period, rather than all at once 
- review information from each class, but not immediately after class - have a break 
- after reviewing information from a recent class, ensure you study older information
- review should not be just reading your notes, use other effective study strategies 
- forgetting information is good as it encourages you to engage in [[retrieval-practice]]
- create small spaces, a little bit over time regularly adds up

## References

Benjamin, A. S., & Tullis, J. (2010). What makes distributed practice effective? *Cognitive Psychology*, *61*(3), 228--247. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2010.05.004>

Bjork, R., & Bjotk, E. (1992). A new theory of disuse and an old theory of stimulus fluctuation. *Essays in Honor of William K. Estes, Vol. 1991: From Learning Theory to Connectionist Theory*, 1935--1967.

Weinstein, Y., Madan, C. R., & Sumeracki, M. A. (2018). Teaching the science of learning. *Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications*, *3*(1), 2. <https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-017-0087-y>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[productive-failure]: ../Teaching/Mathematics/productive-failure "Productive Failure"
[retrieval-practice]: retrieval-practice "Retrieval Practice"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"