---
title: Understanding
---
Skemp (2006) identifies two types of understanding and links them to [[teaching]] practices

1. Relational understanding; and,

    > knowing both what to do and why
2. Instrumental understanding

    > 'rules without reasons'...the possession of such a rule, and the ability to use it

## Examples from mathematics

- Knowing the formula for area of a rectangle
- How to multiply fractions
- Calculate the circumference of a circle

## Which is best?

We might argue that _relational_ understanding should be the goal. However, Skemp's that a deeper problem is when there is a mismatch between the aims of teacher/student. i.e. where one is aiming for relational and the other instrumental.

## Analogy - finding your way around a new town

The difference between knowing fixed routes between having a "map" of the town.

- Instrumental understanding - "learning an increasing number of fixed plans", plans that can get one from one point to another where the next step in the journey is dependent on the local situation
- Relational understanding - "building up a conceptual structure (schema) from which its possessor can (in principle) produce an unlimited number of plans"

heavy emphasis on scheme building - links to [[rubric-design#SOLO|SOLO taxonomy]]


## References

Skemp, R. R. (2006). Relational Understanding and Instrumental Understanding. *Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School*, *12*(2), 88--95.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching]: ../Teaching/teaching "Teaching"
[rubric-design#SOLO|SOLO taxonomy]: ../Design/rubric-design "Rubric Design"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"