# Seek

Aim being to develop a process to find things out and keep up to date. Allowing information to be pulled and pushed. Led by some driving questions?

And there are also things [[to-read]] and some [[zotero-experiments]]

## Driving questions

Digital technologies - personal computers, the Internet, multimedia, business computing, LLMs/AIs... - have held great promise. Many have suggested significant social promise. Yet, the reality has not lived up to the promise. Why? What can be done to improve the situation?

Perhaps the purpose and design of digital technologies has been too commercially focused and insufficiently focused on personal empowerment, social betterment etc? Perhaps people and society aren't ready for individuals to be empowered with the design of digital technologies? 

Harnessing the protean nature of digital technology appears to an undelivered promise. Why? How to change?

The idea of [[distribution]] appears to be core. The [[hacker-ethos-collective-intelligence]] idea when combined with truly distributed technology (Mastodon) are examples.  Perhaps my work echoes this somewhat with the personal, shadow systems, and userscript work.

[[bad_set-casa-gather-weave]]

### How to stretch higher educations the iron triangle

[[iron-triangle-reusability-paradox]]

### Models and ways of working: seek/sense/share 


### Web development

How to build and develop Svelte applications/components/userscripts?

## Tools

Tools to explore adding here, include

1. Zotero - academic publications (mostly)
2. Diigo
3. Hypothes.is

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[to-read]: to-read "To read"
[zotero-experiments]: process/zotero-experiments "Experiments with Zotero"
[distribution]: ../sense/Distribution/distribution "Distribution"
[hacker-ethos-collective-intelligence]: ../sense/Distribution/hacker-ethos-collective-intelligence "Hacker Ethos as Collective Intelligence"
[bad_set-casa-gather-weave]: ../sense/CASA/bad_set-casa-gather-weave "The relationships between BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave"
[iron-triangle-reusability-paradox]: ../sense/Design/iron-triangle-reusability-paradox "Links between Iron Triangle and the Reusability Paradox"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"