---
name: "Big ideas in mathematics"
type: note
tags: [teaching,mathematics,teachingMathematics]
---

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]], [[exploring-australian-curriculum]], [[mathematical-structure]]

A way of seeing mathematics as coherent and connected whole. Rather than a collection of (apparently) disconnected topics. Big ideas run across traditional curricula strands.

QCoT (2015) gives two views


## Why?

QCoT (2015) suggest that big ideas help: teachers - mathematics to be more coherent; and, students - to develop a deep understanding of mathematics and its applications. That seems an arbitrary distinction with both advantages apply universally.

Ma & Kessel (2003) argue that teachers require a fundamental understanding of mathematics in terms of four key features:

- connectedness,
- multiple perspectives,
- recurring basic ideas, and 
- longitudinal coherence

Australian Curriculum sees mathematics "of multiple but interrelated and interdependent concepts and systems". Which it apparently contributes to through four proficiency strands: understanding, fluency, problem solving, and reasoning. Currently associated under the considerations as part of _proficiency in mathematics_

Making connections between areas is one of the stated aims of the v9 oz curriculum. Askey et al (1997) found good teachers believing that being numerate requires "having a rich network of connections between different mathematical ideas". As opposed to "death by a thousand bullet points" of curriculum frameworks.

### Teacher need

Kuntze et al (2011) and Clarke et al (2012) found that pre-service and in-service teachers need support in identifying, describing and linking important ideas in mathematics.

### Variations of school curriculum

Steen (1990) - 6 broad categories

- Quantity
- Dimension
- Pattern 
- Shape
- Uncertainty 
- Change

Rutherford & Ahlgren (1989)

- Numbers
- Shapes
- Uncertainty 
- Summarising data 
- Sampling 
- Reasoning

## Overarching and integrative big ideas - top down

## From atomised to clustered: bottom-up

## References

QCoT. (2015). *Big ideas in mathematics* (QCoT Research Digest). QCoT. [https://cdn.qct.edu.au/pdf/Research%20Periodicals/QCTResearchDigest2015\_11.pdf](https://cdn.qct.edu.au/pdf/Research%20Periodicals/QCTResearchDigest2015_11.pdf)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[exploring-australian-curriculum]: ..%2F..%2FPython%2Fexploring-australian-curriculum "Exploring australian curriculum"
[mathematical-structure]: mathematical-structure "Mathematical structure"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"