---
title: "Complex instruction"
type: note
tags: [teaching, mathematics, complex-instruction]
---

See also: [[mathematical-mindsets]], [[teaching]]

Resources: 

- [Complex Instruction @ SFU school district](https://www.sfusdmath.org/complex-instruction.html)
- [Program for Complex Instruction](https://cgi.stanford.edu/group/pci/cgi-bin/site.cgi) - 1990s looking site from Stanford

Program of pedagogical strategies based on sociological research by Cohen and colleagues. Aiming to increase participation and learning for all.

Cited by Boaler (see [[mathematical-mindsets]]) which may well be an outgrowth/influenced by Complex Instruction.

## Principles

1. Multiple ability curriculum - open-ended, rich tasks to support learning of key concept and skills.
2. Instructional strategies - norms, roles and teacher interventions to develop autonomy and interdependence
3. Status and accountability - raise expectations, hold individuals and groups accountable for learning, intervening in status issues
    Linked to "expectation states theory" - status characteristics affect interaction and influence group situations. Rate of interaction in a group is a predictor of learning. Low status can limit interaction. Addressed through

    - multiple-abilities treatment - make visible to all the different types of "intelligence" required for the task:

      - naming the different abilities required
      - create a mixed set of expectations for each student - they are strong/weak on different skills



## Group Tasks for Complex Instruction

Summarised from (Cohen et al, 1999)

- foster conceptual understanding group activities are organised around a central concept/big idea
- students encounter the concept in different contexts, multiple opportunities
- tasks are inherently uncertain and open-ended in terms of solution and process
- tasks require multiple different types of abilities to allow students' diverse capabilities to shine

## References

Cohen, E. G., Lotan, R. A., Scarloss, B. A., & Arellano, A. R. (1999). Complex Instruction: Equity in Cooperative Learning Classrooms. Theory Into Practice, 38(2), 80–86.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[mathematical-mindsets]: mathematical-mindsets "Mathematical mindsets"
[teaching]: ../teaching "Teaching"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"