# conceptual-approach-to-mathematics

See also: [[practice-approach-to-mathematics]], [[teaching-mathematics]]

Boaler (2015)
> an approach in which students were shown the complexity of mathematics and expected to think conceptually at all times, choosing, using, and applying methods.

Which she argues is better for development of a [[mathematical-mindset]]

## Comparison with [[practice-approach-to-mathematics]]

Research findings when comparing

> The students who were taught to practice methods over and over in a disciplined school in which there were high levels of “time on task” scored at significantly lower levels on the national mathematics examination than students who practiced much less but were encouraged to think conceptually. One significant problem the students from the traditional school faced in the national examination—a set of procedural questions—was that they did not know which method to choose to answer questions. They had practiced methods over and over but had never been asked to consider a situation and choose a method. (Boaler, 2015, p. 45)

## References

Boaler, J. (2015). Creating Mathematical Mindsets: The Importance of Flexibility with Numbers. In *Mathematical Mindsets: Unleashing Students' Potential Through Creative Math, Inspiring Messages and Innovative Teaching* (pp. 33--56). John Wiley & Sons, Incorporated.



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[practice-approach-to-mathematics]: practice-approach-to-mathematics "Practice approach to mathematics"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[mathematical-mindset]: mathematical-mindset "Mathematical Mindset"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"