# Effective pedagogy in mathematics

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]]

Anthony and Walshaw (2009) propose a collection of principles for effective mathematical pedagogy. Each principle is supported by literature and overall the work is informed by a collection of beliefs.

## Beliefs that mathematics pedagogy must

> - be grounded in the general premise that all students have the right to access education and the specific premise that all have the right to access mathematical culture; 
> - acknowledge that all students, irrespective of age, can develop positive mathematical identities and become powerful mathematical learners; 
> - be based on interpersonal respect and sensitivity and be responsive to the multiplicity of cultural heritages, thinking processes, and realities typically found in our classrooms; 
> - be focused on optimising a range of desirable academic outcomes that include conceptual understanding, procedural fluency, strategic competence, and adaptive reasoning; 
> - be committed to enhancing a range of social outcomes within the mathematics classroom that will contribute to the holistic development of students for productive citizenship.


## Principles

### 1. An ethic of care

> Caring classroom communities that are focused on mathematical goals help develop students’ mathematical identities and proficiencies.

### 2. Arranging for learning

> Effective teachers provide students with opportunities to work both independently and collaboratively to make sense of ideas

### 3. Building on students' thinking

> Effective teachers plan mathematics learning experiences that enable students to build on their existing proficiencies, interests, and experiences.

### 4. Worthwhile mathematical tasks

> Effective teachers understand that the tasks and examples they select influence how students come to view, develop, use, and make sense of mathematics.

### 5. Making connections

> Effective teachers support students in creating connections between different ways of solving problems, between mathematical representations and topics, and between mathematics and everyday experiences.

### 6. Assessment for learning

> Effective teachers use a range of assessment practices to make students’ thinking visible and to support students’ learning.

### 7. Mathematical Communication

> Effective teachers are able to facilitate classroom dialogue that is focused on mathematical argumentation.

### 8. Mathematical language

> Effective teachers shape mathematical language by modelling appropriate terms and communicating their meaning in ways that students understand.

### 9. Tools and representations

> Effective teachers carefully select tools and representations to provide support for students’ thinking.

### 10. Teacher knowledge

> Effective teachers develop and use sound knowledge as a basis for initiating learning and responding to the mathematical needs of all their students.

## References

Anthony, G., & Walshaw, M. (2009). Effective Pedagogy in Mathematics. Educational Practices Series-19. In *UNESCO International Bureau of Education*. UNESCO International Bureau of Education.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"