---
title: Learner Generated Examples
---
Watson and Shipman (2008) 
> ...learners being asked to generate examples of new mathematical concepts, thus developing and exploring example spaces.....experience can be oragnised in such a way that shifts of understanding take place as a result of learners' own actions.

Generating personal examples is encouraged by writers of mathematical texts

_Example_ is an instance, illustration, case or element of a mathematical idea, object, process or class. 

## Perceived obstacles

- _learner paradox_ - how can learners construct objects without knowing what to construct?

    However, a basic practice in mathematics is construct unfamiliar objects from what is familiar. Ways to do this include
    - exercising variation beyond perceived limitations
    - identifying underlying structures of mathematical representations and re-combining them

    Using practices such as abduction, conjecture without meaning, structure and relationships

- needing a _shift to higher mental functioning_. Simply generating and comparing examples are not sufficient for conceptualisation.

    Some of this has to do with going with or [[across-the-grain]]. Going with the grain leads to simplistic/missing of underlying structures. But across the grain reveals the internal structure. Which in turn is related to the idea that this work doesn't occur without a level of scaffolding.

- only for advanced learners

Which leads to three questions
- Is it possible for learners to create examples of classes of object they have not met before? 
- Is it possible for non-advanced students to learn about mathematical objects and relationships by generating their own examples? 
- If so, what sort of conditions might contribute to learning?

## To do

Read

Goldenberg, P., & Mason, J. (2008). Shedding light on and with example spaces. *Educational Studies in Mathematics*, *69*(2), 183--194. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10649-008-9143-3>

Adler, J., & Pournara, C. (2019). Exemplifying with Variation and Its Development in Mathematics Teacher Education. In *International Handbook of Mathematics Teacher Education: Volume 1* (pp. 329--353). Brill. [https://doi.org/10.1163/9789004418875\_013](https://doi.org/10.1163/9789004418875_013)


## References

Dinkelman, M. O. (2013). *Using Learner-Generated Examples to Support Student Understanding of Functions*.

Watson, A., & Mason, J. (2005). Mathematics as a constructive activity: learners generating examples. Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.

Watson, A., & Shipman, S. (2008). Using learner generated examples to introduce new concepts. *Educational Studies in Mathematics*, *69*(2), 97--109. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10649-008-9142-4>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[across-the-grain]: across-the-grain "Across the grain"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"