# Mathematical discussion and communication (in the classroom)

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]]


## Techniques

Adapted from [observation checklist](https://thinkingtogether.educ.cam.ac.uk/resources/Teacher_techniques_checklist.pdf)

- elicit knowledge from learners
  - Direct elicitation
  - Cued elicitations (hints)
- respond to what learners say
  - Confirmations
  - Rejections
  - Repetitions
  - Reformulations
- describe significant aspects of shared experience
  - 'we' statements (we are going)
  - recaps
  

## Class norms/enculturation

Talking rules

- we share our ideas and listen to each other
- we talk one at a time
- we respect each other's opinions
- we give reasons to explain our ideas
- if we disagree we ask "why"
- we try to agree at the end

## Student difficulty describing

Tactics, ask them to share an example. Write it won or find it in their book, and another example, and another. Connecting with the idea of [[learner-generated-examples]]

## Questioning

Questions with multiple responses

- What mathematics do you see? 

    Images can open up different responses.  But a point seems to be to have scaffolding questions ready.

- Compare and contrast two different representations?

    Or offer different answers to a problem. Some with carefully chosen misconceptions etc.

- Questions that generate debate

    How many times would you shake hands if everyone shook hands with everyone? Smallest/largest prime number?

Use TPS or similar to get around contribution fear. Create a culture.




## Resources

[Thinking Together Project](https://thinkingtogether.educ.cam.ac.uk/) - "a dialogue-based approach to the development of children's thinking and learning"

## References

Ingram, J. (2019). Discussion and communication. In *A Practical Guide to Teaching Mathematics in the Secondary School* (pp. 58--66). Taylor & Francis Group.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[learner-generated-examples]: learner-generated-examples "Learner Generated Examples"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"