---
title: "Mathematics Class Survey"
type: "note"
tags: teaching-mathematics
---

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]]

Collection of ideas for initial (and perhaps on-going) surveys of students in mathematics classes.


## Initial survey

### 2024 initial design

The Vic DoE Boaler survey plus

- free text questions 

    - Where you hear the work "maths", what words pop into your head?
    - What do you do in your maths classes?
    - What would you like to do more of in maths class? 
    - What would you like to do less of in maths class?

    - For year 11 add 

        - What might you be doing after finishing school (work, study...)? (or some variation)

- Agree/not sure/disagree

    - I think I am good at maths.
    - My peers think I am good at maths.

Implemented as a one pager in print. No space for names.


### [Vic DoE](https://www.education.vic.gov.au/school/teachers/teachingresources/practice/improve/Pages/eitassessattitudes.aspx)


[Victorian DoE survey](https://fusecontent.education.vic.gov.au/c01b222e-8767-436e-b130-9740a94c2c73/3.When%20it%20comes%20to%20learning%20mathematics_V4.pdf) based on Boaler's work

When it comes to learning mathematics, where am I now? (scale is 4 point from "not like me" to "a lot like me")

1. When something is hard I keep trying - I don't give up easily.
2. When I get stuck I just look for different ways to get unstuck.
3. I feel comfortable being wrong.
4. When I’m struggling a bit I know that means I’m really learning.
5. I enjoy maths more and learn better when it is challenging.
6. I know that making mistakes is how people learn so I don’t get upset if I make a mistake.
7. I believe the more time and effort I put into my learning the better I will get at maths.
8. I like to find different ways to solve problems.
9. I think it’s more important to really understand the maths we’re learning than getting every answer right.
10. I believe I can get better at Maths.

### Emergent math - [mindset and attitudes survey](https://emergentmath.com/2019/08/14/mathsurvey/)

Some open ended questions. The website has some pie charts showing % responses - might be useful for comparisons.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"