# The Mathematical Design and Implementation Framework

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]]

[Original source](https://www.mathsmodellingenablers.com/design-and-implementation-framework.html) - is the _Enablers of Mathematical Modelling_ ARC project. References Niss (2010) for enablers. Origins of this framework provided by Geiger et al (2022)


A framework developed with feedback from teachers. Framework divided in two parts

1. Design of the mathematical modelling task.
2. Design of the classroom implementation.

## Principles for modelling task design

1.  Nature of problem 

    Open-ended and involve both intra- and extra- mathematical information. Vary open-endedness dependent on students’ previous experience with modelling. Add more scaffolding if required.

2. Relevance and motivation 

    Genuine link with students' real-world. Heavily dependent on students and context. Further adaptation may be required.

3. Accessibility 

    Mathematically tractable questions are evidence from a general problem statement. Accessible to student math content and perspective.

4. Feasibility of approach 

    The solution process is available to students given (a) their mathematical K&S, (b) the making of necessary assumptions, and (c) the assembly of necessary data. Teachers must work through the problem. 

5. Feasibility of outcome 

    Will students actually be able to solve and evaluate their solution to the problem?

6. Didactical flexibility T

    Able to structure the problem in different ways (sequential questions). What other didactical scaffolds might be required?

## Pedagogical architecture

## References

Geiger, V., Galbraith, P., Niss, M., & Delzoppo, C. (2022). Developing a task design and implementation framework for fostering mathematical modelling competencies. *Educational Studies in Mathematics*, *109*(2), 313--336. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10649-021-10039-y>

Niss, M. (2010). Modeling a Crucial Aspect of Students' Mathematical Modeling. In R. Lesh, P. L. Galbraith, C. R. Haines, & A. Hurford (Eds.), *Modeling Students' Mathematical Modeling Competencies: ICTMA 13* (pp. 43--59). Springer US. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-0561-1\_4](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-0561-1_4)


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"