# My approach to teaching mathematics

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]]

This will never be finished. Perhaps not even particularly useful, but I need to start making concrete some initial ideas.

Probably also applicable to other subjects.

## Philosophy/assumptions

Starts with [[my-teaching-philosophy]] - essentially bricolagogy. 

Deal with the 

- practicalities of school teaching as a system of systems
- including the constraints of the curriculum, common approaches to teaching, conceptions of mathematics
- the huge diversity of students on numerous fronts, including the mathematical literacy/ability

Aiming to help students develop a [[mathematical-mindset]]

Informed by [[memex/norman-activity-centered-design]], [[abc-learning-design-and-acad]], [[needs-for-learning-design-systems]], [[evolution-of-design-for-learning]]

## Implementation

1. Identify a set of principles to guide the next step
2. Identify a common set of activity types for lessons (draw more on ABC Learning Design)

    - starters
        - retrieval
        - connections
    - content acquisition
    - inquiry learning - problems
    - worksheets
    - connections with mathematics/real world??
    - homework

3. Figure out effective, digital methods for production and support
4. Identify [[big-ideas-in-mathematics|big ideas]]/driving questions for units and lessons

  Questions all the way down

### Principles

- create exciting mathematics environments
    - curiosity, connection making, challenge, creativity, collaboration
- give students the positive messages they need
- pique students' curiosity and interest
  - driving questions 
- integrate [[assessment-for-learning]] - [[data-informed-teaching]]

### Strategies

- Liljedahl's 

  - [lesson planning advice](explicit-versus-inquiry.md#a-different-approach-non-curricular-scripted-curricular-as-is-curricular) three/five non curricular, followed by scripted curricular
  - Random group work (Liljedahl, 2014) and ideas for thinking classroom (Liljedahl, 2020)

- Richland et al (2012) report on research focused on the two most common types of problem. But also note research that found the _making connections_ type problems can be turned into a _using procedure_.

  - Using procedures - students solve problems they've been taught to solve.
  - Making connections - problems where students struggle and are focused on making connections between concepts.


## Activity Types

Associated ideas: [Project Zero's Thinking Routine toolbox](https://pz.harvard.edu/thinking-routines)

The vague idea is to develop a small collection of common activity types - related by pedagogical purpose - that can be

1. Integrated into lessons as required, regardless of the broader pedagogical framework/approach
2. Perhaps eventually form the basis for a form of [[activity-based design|abc-learning-design-and-acad]]

A nascent list

- [math expectations](#math-expectations) - set, model, reinforce expectations
- math warm ups - what to do on entry?
- [[math-connections-activity-type]] - help students see connections within and outside of mathematics
- rich math tasks - need a better name for this
- math practice
- [homework](#homework) focused on reflection, conceptual understanding, connections etc (not procedural)

Underpinning all are perhaps ideas like

- Encouraging a [[mathematical-mindset]]
- Building all of: computation/procedural skills; conceptual understanding; and, problem solving. -- move beyond repetition of procedures

### Math expectations

Purpose to reinforce the type of mindset/perception of students and mathematics

- growth mindset stuff
- sense of belonging in mathematics (Good, Rattan & Dweck, 2012)

### Homework

One of Boaler's suggestions

- What was the main idea you learned today?
- What is something you are struggling with or have questions about?
- How could the ideas from today's lesson be used in life?

## References

Liljedahl, P. (2014). The Affordances of Using Visibly Random Groups in a Mathematics Classroom. In Y. Li, E. A. Silver, & S. Li (Eds.), *Transforming Mathematics Instruction: Multiple Approaches and Practices* (pp. 127--144). Springer International Publishing. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-04993-9\_8](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-04993-9_8)

Liljedahl, P. (2020). *Building Thinking Classrooms in Mathematics, Grades K-12: 14 Teaching Practices for Enhancing Learning*. Corwin Press. <http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/griffith/detail.action?docID=6358633>

Richland, L. E., Stigler, J. W., & Holyoak, K. J. (2012). Teaching the Conceptual Structure of Mathematics. *Educational Psychologist*, *47*(3), 189--203. <https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2012.667065>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[my-teaching-philosophy]: ..%2Fmy-teaching-philosophy "My Teaching Philosophy"
[mathematical-mindset]: mathematical-mindset "Mathematical Mindset"
[memex/norman-activity-centered-design]: ..%2F..%2F..%2F..%2Fnorman-activity-centered-design "Don Norman on Activity-Centered Design"
[abc-learning-design-and-acad]: ..%2F..%2FDesign%2Fabc-learning-design-and-acad "ABC Learning Design and ACAD"
[needs-for-learning-design-systems]: ..%2F..%2F..%2Fshare%2Fblog%2Fneeds-for-learning-design-systems "Needs for Learning Design Systems"
[evolution-of-design-for-learning]: ..%2F..%2FDesign%2Fevolution-of-design-for-learning "Evolution of design for learning"
[big-ideas-in-mathematics|big ideas]: big-ideas-in-mathematics "big-ideas-in-mathematics"
[assessment-for-learning]: ..%2FAssessment%2Fassessment-for-learning "assessment-for-learning"
[data-informed-teaching]: ..%2Fdata-informed-teaching "data-informed-teaching"
[math-connections-activity-type]: activity-types%2Fmath-connections-activity-type "Mathematical Connections Activity Type"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"