---
backlinks:
- title: My approach to teaching mathematics
  url: /sense/Teaching/Mathematics/my-approach-to-teaching-mathematics.html
- title: CSER Math Connections with Community
  url: /sense/Teaching/Mathematics/cser-connections-with-community.html
- title: Technologies for teaching mathematics
  url: /sense/Teaching/Mathematics/technologies-for-teaching-mathematics.html
- title: 'MATH081C Unit 1, Lesson 1: 2024'
  url: /sense/Teaching/Implementation/2024/MAT081C/mat081c-2024-u1l1.html
- title: MAT081C Planning for unit 1 - statistical investigation
  url: /sense/Teaching/Implementation/2024/MAT081C/mat081c-2024-u1-statistical-investigation.html
title: Notice and wonder
---
Method for prompting students to generate and explore mathematical questions of their own choosing. An example of a [[mathematically-productive-tasks]]

Rumack and Huinker (2019, p. 396) offer the following routine

1. Getting started

    Display the prompt and read or describe it to increase student access. Set a timer for 2–5 minutes of independent think time and direct students to jot down 3 noticings and 3 wonderings. 

2. Rehearsing 

    Partners take turns sharing what they notice first, followed by sharing what they wonder. Teachers circulate around the room, listen to students, and encourage reluctant students to participate. 
4. Whole-Class Discussion 

    Elicit and chart what students have noticed without judgment, until it seems that all students have shared their thoughts. Then record what students have wondered from as many students as possible in the allotted time. 
6. Decision Point 

    Examine the lists with the mathematical goal in mind and decide the next steps for the lesson.

## Advice

Implementation may be aided by 

1. As conversation wonders away from goal, using another _wondering_ to redirect to desired goals.
2. Ask students to identify the wonderings which "look" mathematical.
3. Use a timer.
4. Use simple, relevant photographs as prompts.

## References

Rumack, A. M., & Huinker, D. (2019). Capturing Mathematical Curiosity with Notice and Wonder. *Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School*, *24*(7), 394--399. <https://doi.org/10.5951/mathteacmiddscho.24.7.0394>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[mathematically-productive-tasks]: mathematically-productive-tasks "Mathematically productive tasks"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"