# Productive Failure 

See also: [[teaching]], [[teaching-mathematics]]

> Productive failure is an instructional approach that requires learners to struggle as they attempt to generate solutions to problems before, rather than after, receiving direct instruction on a targeted concept. Studies demonstrate that productive failure prepares students for later learning of new, related knowledge (Steenhof et al, 2019, p. 739)

- struggling with something first, prepares learners to better understand the significance of an expert solution (Bransford & Schwartz cite in Steenhof et al, 2019)

## Mathematics

Kapur (2014) compared the two approaches

1. More traditional _direct instruction_

    > The traditional, most prevailing method is to first teach students the concept and procedures of SD and then get them to solve problems requiring those concept and procedures. This sequence of instruction followed by problem solving is commonly known as direct instruction (p. 1008)

2. The _productive failure_ sequence

    > A contrasting method is one that reverses the sequence, that is, engages students in problem solving first and then teaches them the concept and procedures (p. 1008)

    Arguing that the _productive failure_ sequence "combines the benefits of exploratory problem solving and instruction, thereby mitigating the possibility that students do not discover the correct concepts and procedures on their own" (Kapur, 2014, p. 1009)

Reasons to believe in the effectiveness of _productive failure_ include

1. Initial problem solving helps activate and differentiate prior knowledge, if students are able to use that prior knowledge to generate suboptimal/incorrect solution to the problem
2. The difficulty they encounter "can aid encoding and schema assembly" and prepare for subsequent instruction
3. If students persist in problem solving this provides them with more agency and therefore engagement
4. Help students notice inconsistencies and limitations or prior knowledge
5. Prior knowledge activation and differentation may afford greater opportunities comparing student and expert solutions - raising student awareness of and encoding of critical features of the new concept, helping improve their ability to select and apply knowledge & procedures

### Results

In summary

- Direct instruction students tended to somewhat better on procedural knowledge
- productive failure students did significantly better on conceptual understanding and transfer

> Productive failure students, in spite of reporting greater mental effort than DI students, significantly outperformed DI students on conceptual understanding and transfer without compromising procedural knowledge.1 Evidence therefore supports the hypothesis that the PF method activated and differentiated students’ prior knowledge during the problemsolving phase, which may have prepared them to learn from the subsequent instruction phase. The significant correlation between the number of solutions generated by PF students during the problem-solving phase—a proxy indicator of prior knowledge activation and differentiation—and their conceptual understanding and transfer performance on the posttest lends further credibility to this explanation. (Kapur, 2014, p. 1014)


## References

Kapur, M. (2014). Productive Failure in Learning Math. Cognitive Science, 38(5), 1008–1022. https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.12107

Kapur, M. (2015). Learning from productive failure. Learning: Research and Practice, 1(1), 51–65. https://doi.org/10.1080/23735082.2015.1002195

Kapur, M., & Bielaczyc, K. (2012). Designing for Productive Failure. Journal of the Learning Sciences, 21(1), 45–83. https://doi.org/10.1080/10508406.2011.591717

Steenhof, N., Woods, N. N., Van Gerven, P. W. M., & Mylopoulos, M. (2019). Productive failure as an instructional approach to promote future learning. Advances in Health Sciences Education, 24(4), 739–749. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10459-019-09895-4


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching]: ../teaching "Teaching"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"