# reSolve - Mathematics by inquiry

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]], [[inquiry-learning]]

[re(Solve) - Maths by Inquiry](https://www.resolve.edu.au/) - Oz Government funded project including numerous teaching resources including alignment with Oz Curriculum (but sadly not v9)

## [reSolve Protocol](https://www.resolve.edu.au/sites/default/files/downloads/reSolve%20Protocol_MC%20approved%2021.06.16%20FINAL.pdf?time=1503549866)

> In order to foster a spirit of inquiry in all mathematics teaching and learning:
> - reSolve mathematics is purposeful
> - reSolve tasks are challenging yet accessible
> - reSolve classrooms have a knowledge-building culture

### Purposeful

reSolve contests a view of school mathematics as a body of disconnected facts and procedures to be learned, by:

- Presenting mathematics as a way of modelling the real world and as an abstract discipline.
- Focusing on substantial mathematical ideas.
- Supporting a rich interpretation and enactment of the content and proficiencies of the Australian Curriculum: Mathematics.
- Acknowledging mathematics as a creative and imaginative endeavor, continually changing and developing in a technological society.
- Connecting mathematics through deep linkages to other mathematical ideas and to other areas of the curriculum.

### Challenging

 reSolve contests a view that some students can “do” mathematics well and others cannot, by:

- Activating existing knowledge, developing new knowledge and exploring relationships between key ideas by working on meaningful tasks.
- Engaging students in sustained inquiry, problem solving, decision making and communication.
- Providing opportunity for all students irrespective of background and experience.
- Structuring tasks and using technologies to optimise students’ mathematical development.
- Using evidence of students’ progress to inform feedback and subsequent teaching action.
- Providing prompts and activities meeting a range of student capabilities, from those needing assistance to those ready for further challenge.

### Knowledge-building culture

reSolve contests a view that mathematics is best learned through copying and memorising, by:

- Sustaining higher order mathematical thinking through the active role of both teacher and student.
- Challenging existing conceptions and using mistakes as a vehicle for learning.
- Enhancing learning through active exploration of a variety of perspectives, including ideas from other people and disciplines.
- Building success and understanding through collaborative inquiry, action and reflection, enhanced by the use of technologies as tools for working mathematically.
- Eliciting productive dispositions, including productive struggle and the motivation and confidence to take risks.

## Perspectives on inquiry

Thornton (2016, p. 313)
> Whatever our conception of inquiry, the goal must be to encourage students: 
> - to wonder, 
> - to ask questions, 
> - to seek patterns and explain solutions. 
> Such a goal empowers students to both make sense of the world and to begin to work like mathematicians.

## References

Thornton, S. (2017). Empowering Students through Inquiry. In *Empowering Mathematics Learners* (pp. 313--332). WORLD SCIENTIFIC. [https://doi.org/10.1142/9789813224223\_0016](https://doi.org/10.1142/9789813224223_0016)


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[inquiry-learning]: inquiry-learning "Inquiry Learning"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"