---
title: Talk moves
type: "note"
tags: teaching, teaching-mathematics
---

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]]

[Toolset from NSW DoE](https://education.nsw.gov.au/teaching-and-learning/curriculum/literacy-and-numeracy/teaching-and-learning-resources/numeracy/talk-moves) for supporting rich, meaingful, classroom discussion in mathematics

Based on 

-   wait time

    - Take some to think 
    - I'm going to give you some time to think about your answer before I ask you to respond
    - Be prepared to share your thinking with a partner

-   turn and talk

    - Turn and talk to the person next to you
    - Share your thinking about 
    - How is your thinking similar or different 
    - What strategy did you use to...
    - Be prepared to share you discussion with the group. I may ask you to share what your partner said 

-   revoicing

    - So you're saying...Do I have that correct
    - Are you saying that 

-   reasoning

    - Can you explain that further
    - What evidence did you use
    - Do you agree or disagree with ... idea? Why?
    - Can you convince.... that....?

-   adding on

    - Does any have something else to add 
    - I (dis)agree with ... because ... 
    - Can you say some more about that please? What else do you....?

-   repeating

    - Can you repeat or rephrase what...said about...?
    - I think we should go back to what .. said. It was important. Can you repeat what ... said please?
    - How could you summarise that discussion?

-   revise your thinking.

    - Has anyone revised their thinking? Why?
    - Would anyone change their strategy/thinking now? Why?


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"