---
backlinks:
- title: Number talk - Cups of flour
  url: /sense/Teaching/Mathematics/number_talk/cups-of-flour.html
title: Three acts of a mathematical story
---
Dan Meyer's idea for ["The three acts of a mathematical story"](https://blog.mrmeyer.com/2011/the-three-acts-of-a-mathematical-story/). Also available is a [list of three act tasks](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1jXSt_CoDzyDFeJimZxnhgwOVsWkTQEsfqouLWNNC6Z4/pub?output=html) and [another list](https://tapintoteenminds.com/3act-math/)

His argument is that most teachers see act two as their focus. "Hit the board, offer students three worked examples and twenty practice problems" - very [[explicit-teaching]]. The problem is that's not the biggest part of our job. Meyer argues that students can find these resources many places. Hence a need to focus on providing the whole story. The ability to motivate the second act and pay off on the hard work.

I agree with the limitations of the focus on the second act, but not for the reasons provided. Not convinced most students are actively looking for those resources. I do think an over focus on [[explicit-teaching]] combined with constraints on the L&T environment mean that a focus on act 2 is likely.

## Three acts

1. Introduce the central conflict of your story/task clearly, visually, viscerally, using as few words as possible.

    Impose as few demands as possible, include everyone. Generate a visceral reaction to the image. Links to the anyqs challenge

2. The student overcomes obstacles, looks for resources, and develops new tools.

    What resources will the students need? What tools do they have? What tools do they need? (mathematical)

3. Resolve the conflict and set up a sequel/extension.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[explicit-teaching]: explicit-teaching "Explicit teaching"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"