---
backlinks:
- title: Teaching Mathematics
  url: /memex/sense/Teaching/Mathematics/teaching-mathematics.html
- title: ALIVE
  url: /memex/sense/Teaching/Mathematics/alive.html
title: TIRED
---
De Geest & Lee (2019) cite Nardi and Steward's (2003) work with students disengaged with mathematics (not misbehaving, just disengaged) and discovered the perception of mathematics lessons as TIRED

Identified through year long observations and interviews with teachers and students at three - English comprehensive, predominantly white, mixed SEO, and above average GCSE results - schools. 

## **T**edious

Expressed by overwhelming majority of students.

Maths as irrelevant, boring, no opportunity for activity, isolated and non-transferable.

Cites research suggesting much of this comes from the abstract nature and compressed symbolic representation of mathematics (Tidly & Wolf, 2000) - echoes of [[checks-for-pedagogy]]

Attempts to address this through "using and applying" curriculum strands are not seen positively by students as they don't see the chosen "practical" activities as meaningful. - echoes of [[real-work-versus-real-world]]

Individualised learning schemes are also called out for not enough teacher/pupil interaction. Likely due to challenges of implementation.

Relevance, excitement, variety, and challenge were cited by students as appropriate characteristics

## **I**solated

Little opportunity to work with peers.

## **R**ote learning (rule and cue following)

Mathematics as a set of rules giving unquestionable methods and answers to problems. It boils down to rule following, which is not seen as intellectually challenging. But adding in time constraints then limits time. Which makes it harder for students to gain understanding and subsequently removes any chance of satisfaction.

In turn associated with long periods of being "talked at" by the teacher.

> By presenting the learner with an algorithmic task, without inviting them to construct an understanding of the rationale behind the task or an understanding of how the algorithm has come to provide an answer to the set question, while attempting to engage the learner with a task that is perceived as simple and accessible, one mystifies the mathematics behind the algorithm and obscures the power of reasoning that lies within mathematics. **This mystification-through-reduction does mathematics no favours as it perpetuates its image as an elitist, remote and inaccessible subject**. (Nardi & Steward, 2003, p. 357)

Echoes rationale behind [[productive-failure]]

## **E**litist

Maths is a demanding subject and only exceptionally intelligent people can succeed. Student "self-images of mathematical ability are overwhelmingly negative". Linked to this is reports of mathematical ability being innate. Apparently reinforced by stratification strategies

## **D**epersonalised

Students report liking a learning environment that "cautiously caters for their individual needs". Value placed on a teacher able to balance sensitivity with challenge. But a perception that the better students get the better teachers.

Individual strengths mentioed - e.g. poor short-term memory and times tables. But also challenging is the idea of mathematics as an evolving set of building blocks.



## References

De Geest, E., & Lee, C. (2019). Promoting a postive learning environment. In C. Lee & R. Ward-Penny (Eds.), *A Practical Guide to Teaching Mathematics in Secondary School*. Taylor & Francis Group.

Nardi, E., & Steward, S. (2003). Is Mathematics T.I.R.E.D? A Profile of Quiet Disaffection in the Secondary Mathematics Classroom. *British Educational Research Journal*, *29*(3), 345--367. <https://doi.org/10.1080/01411920301852>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[checks-for-pedagogy]: checks-for-pedagogy "Checks for pedagogy"
[real-work-versus-real-world]: real-work-versus-real-world "Real work versus Real world"
[productive-failure]: productive-failure "Productive Failure"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"