# What is mathematics

See also: [[teaching-mathematics]], [[what-do-mathematicians-do]]

Boaler (2015) sees the "the heart of the math problems we face in education" as being "the wide gulf between real mathematics and school mathematics"

## [Roger Antonsen](https://rantonse.org/about) - Hidden secret to understanding the world

[TED Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQElzjCsl9o) which suggests mathematics is

- Finding patterns
- Representing patterns
- Making assumptions
- Doing cool stuff

Which translates into mathematics helps you _change perspectives to deepen understanding_

> Mathematics is a language that helps use represent things and helps us understand patterns.

> Understanding something really deeply has to do with the ability to change your perspective

An equation is showing two different perspectives of the same thing. 

> every mathematical equation where you see the equality sign, it's an analogy between two things dn you're expressing that in a language

Uses many visual and aural example to illustrate.

## Views to explore

Thanheiser & Melhuish (2023) offer numerous possible definitions

- _apprenticeship into the discipline of mathematics_ - the one they use.
- _mathematics as contextual, every present, as a language to make sense of the world_ (Ani, 2021)
- _as a verb, a human activity, part of one's identity_ (Aguirre et al, 2013; Gutierrez, 2018)

## Hersh (1999)

In a book titled _What is Mathematics Really (1999)_ suggests that it is

> questions that drive mathematics. Solving problems and making up new ones is the essence of mathematical life. If mathematics is conceived apart from mathematical life, of course it seems - dead.

## Boaler (2015)

> But mathematics, is a subject full of uncertainty; it is about explorations, conjectures and interpretations, not definitive answers

## Devlin (1997)

> As the science of abstract patterns, there is scarcely any aspect of our lives that is not affected, to a greater or lesser extent, by mathematics; for abstract patterns are the very essence of thought, of communication, of computation, of society, and of life itself.

> Mathematics is a cultural phenomenon; a set of ideas, connections, and relationships that we can use to make sense of the world. At its core, mathematics is about patterns. We can lay a mathematical lens upon the world, and when we do, we see patterns everywhere; and it is through our understanding of the patterns, developed through mathematical study, that new and powerful knowledge is created.

## References

Boaler, J. (2015). Mathematical Mindsets: Unleashing Students’ Potential Through Creative Math, Inspiring Messages and Innovative Teaching. John Wiley & Sons, Incorporated.

Thanheiser, E., & Melhuish, K. (2023). Teaching routines and student-centered mathematics instruction: The essential role of conferring to understand student thinking and reasoning. *The Journal of Mathematical Behavior*, *70*, 101032. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmathb.2023.101032>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching-mathematics]: teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[what-do-mathematicians-do]: what-do-mathematicians-do "What do mathematicians do?"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"