--- 
name: "When to instruct"
type: note
tags: [teaching, teaching-mathematics]
---

See also: [[productive-failure]], [[explicit-versus-inquiry]]

Research suggests that explicit instruction is required, but is best when it is delayed (within some conditions)

## Background

Fyfe et al (2014) explain how research (education and pyschology) sequencing of learning material can be as important as the content

- better transfer when concrete examples precede abstract examples
- benefits from interleaving problem types, rather than blocking
- "general consensus suggests that explicit instruction should be provided; however, when to provide instruction remains unclear"

Fyfe et al (2014) references research suggesting instruction should be delayed, but their findings "suggest a need to identify boundary conditions" that impact the timing of instruction

These a suggestions, to be explored, reinforced

### Type of instruction

Two types discussed: Conceptual and procedural. Most studies do both. Fyfe et al (2014) suggest

- Procedural first is bad - students focus on the procedure, rather than exploring
- Procedural after problem solving - may help prevent studetns generating 
- Conceptual first can be useful, it doesn't provide solutions, buy may guide problem solving and enhance its generative nature
- Subsequent problem solving helps with the construction and integration of new knowledge

### Self-explanation prompts

Students are prompted to explain. Fyfe et al's findings support the idea that "conceptually focused prompts are beneficial for knowledge integration". In other work, none were provide, or what was provided focused on right/wrong answers

Conceptually focused self-explanation prompts may help learners engage with conceptual instruction first.

### Activation of misconceptions

Not actively included in other research. Fyfe et al (2014) included two.

Misconceptions may create "a counterproductive level of struggle" influencing the timing of instruction




## References

Fyfe, E. R., DeCaro, M. S., & Rittle-Johnson, B. (2014). An alternative time for telling: When conceptual instruction prior to problem solving improves mathematical knowledge. *British Journal of Educational Psychology*, *84*(3), 502--519. <https://doi.org/10.1111/bjep.12035>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[productive-failure]: productive-failure "Productive Failure"
[explicit-versus-inquiry]: explicit-versus-inquiry "Explicit versus inquiry"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"