<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This file is part of memex.
 
 memex is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.
 
 memex is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with memex.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Teaching as design science 

See also: [[teaching]]

## Laurillard, 2012

> Teaching is a design science. Like the professions of engineering, architecture, computer science, and medicine, it is not only trying to understand the world but to make the world a better place. Unlike these professions, however, it has not, traditionally, been treated as if teaching is meant to be anything other than a craft-amateur enterprise, where every teacher works alone with their students to do the best they can, given their initial training (p. 225)

One reason for this move is that to move L&T forward in higher ed - esp. in how it uses technology - it needs to better of way of "harnessing and consolidating" the knowledge and practice of teachers "by looking at what it means to treat teaching as a design science" (p. 210).  i.e.

> Chapter 1 proposed that teachers acting as design scientists would observe four basic precepts, to 
>
> 1. keep improving their practice, 
> 2. have a principled way of designing and testing improvements in practice, 
> 3. build on the work of others, 
> 4. represent and share their pedagogic practice, the outcomes they achieved, and how these related to the elements of their design.

## References 

Laurillard, D. (2012). Teaching as Developing Pedagogical Patterns. In *Teaching As a Design Science: Building Pedagogical Patterns for Learning and Technology* (pp. 210--258). Taylor & Francis Group.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching]: teaching "Teaching"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"