---
title: Paper Summaries
---
[[summary-template]]

## General

[[mushroom-at-the-end-of-the-world]]

## Higher education - L&T

[[self-organising-university]]

## Learning design

Conole & Jones (2010) 

> 'Learning design' refers to the range of actions associated with creating a learning activity and crucially provides a means of describing learning activities.

- [[goodyear-patterns-design-practice]]

	Goodyear, P. (2005). Educational design and networked learning: Patterns, pattern languages and design practice. *Australasian Journal of Educational Technology*, *21*(1). <https://doi.org/10.14742/ajet.1344>

## Learning technology

- [[learning-technologies-contested-terrain]]

	Tay, A. Z., Huijser, H., Dart, S., & Cathcart, A. (2022). Learning technology as contested terrain: Insights from teaching academics and learning designers in Australian higher education. *Australasian Journal of Educational Technology*, 56--70. <https://doi.org/10.14742/ajet.8179>


## Quality learning and teaching

[[magic-link-student-satisfaction]]

Bell, A. R., & Brooks, C. (2019). Is There a 'Magic Link' Between Research Activity, Professional Teaching Qualifications and Student Satisfaction? *Higher Education Policy*, *32*(2), 227--248\. <https://doi.org/10.1057/s41307-018-0081-0

## Research paradigms

- [[pragmatism-teaching-philosophy]]

	Klockner, K., Shields, P., Pillay, M., & Ames, K. (2021). Pragmatism as a teaching philosophy in the safety sciences: A higher education pedagogy perspective. *Safety Science*, *138*, 105095. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssci.2020.105095>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[summary-template]: summary-template "Paper summary template"
[mushroom-at-the-end-of-the-world]: mushroom-at-the-end-of-the-world "The Mushroom at the End of the World"
[self-organising-university]: self-organising-university "Self-organising university"
[goodyear-patterns-design-practice]: goodyear-patterns-design-practice "Patterns, pattern languages and design practice"
[learning-technologies-contested-terrain]: learning-technologies-contested-terrain "Learning technology as contested terrain: Insights from teaching academics and learning designers in Australian higher education"
[magic-link-student-satisfaction]: magic-link-student-satisfaction "Is there a 'magic link' between research activity...and student satisfaction"
[pragmatism-teaching-philosophy]: pragmatism-teaching-philosophy "pragmatism-teaching-philosophy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"