---
title: Focal length
description: Understanding focal length in photography.
type: note
tags:
    - photography
image: https://djon.es/assets/memex/sense/photography/photoclass/perspective-test-1.jpeg 
---

!!! warning "Work in progress and simplistic definitions"

    :construction: Still merging all the definitions into something I can understand and explain well to others (and myself) :construction:


In photography, focal length is the distance between the camera sensor's (or film) central point and the its rear principal plane. There's also something about the lens being set to infinity.

The impact of this is that the larger the focal length the sensor will be more focused on subjects that are further away, but also have a narrower field of view. The smaller the focal length the sensor will capture a wider field of view.

## Compression at longer focal lengths

If you increase the focal length to keep a subject the same size in the frame, you need to move further away from the subject. As you do this, the subject and other elements within the image will appear closer together.  Called _compression_.

As you move further away from the image the distance between your and the elements of the image get further away. However, the distances between the elements remains the same. Meaning that the relative distance between elements appears smaller. 

See the differences in the photos in the [[a-matter-of-perspective]] photo story.


## Resources

- [Focal length, angle of view and perspective](https://www.sony.com.au/electronics/focal-length-angle-of-view-perspective)

    Some good example images supporting good explanations.

- [This gif explains how changing focal length impacts a portrait](https://www.diyphotography.net/gif-explains-changing-focal-length-impacts-portrait/)




[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[a-matter-of-perspective]: photo-story/a-matter-of-perspective "A matter of perspective"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"