<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
 published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
 License, or (at your option) any later version.
 
 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
 along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Activity focused mathematics teaching (design for learning)



Nascent idea to underpin [[my-approach-to-teaching-mathematics]] on an activity centered design for learning approach. i.e. moving the focus beyond learning outcomes, curriculum, direct instruction, etc. and other reductionist assumptions toward are more socio-cultural ([[bad-mindset]]) approach.

## Current ideas

- [[math-connections-activity-type]]
- [[math-expectations-activity-type]]

## Theoretical underpinnings/connections

### Socio-cultural

Hernandez-Martinez & Pampka (2017) taking a socio-cultural perspective and citing Gresalfi (2009) talk about shifting from a focus acquiring/delivering the knowledge object toward a conceptualisation of learning that "shifts attention to the kinds of practices in which people participate, and the ways people come to related to one another within a particular activity setting (Gresalfi, 2009) cited in Hernandez-Martinez & Pampka (2017, p. 190). From which flows the idea that learners form _dispostions_ (i.e. ways of being in the world) through their participation in pedagogical practices.

Where disposition is defined as "a capacity to engage". A relational perspective linking the individuals "as _acting_ subjects and the affordances and restrictions that their sociocultural contexts post on them" (Hernandez-Martinez & Pampka, 2017, p. 190).

## References

Hernandez-Martinez, P., & Pampaka, M. (2017). Chapter 7 - "I did use to like maths...": Emotional Changes Toward Mathematics During Secondary School Education. In U. Xolocotzin Eligio (Ed.), *Understanding Emotions in Mathematical Thinking and Learning* (pp. 187--220). Academic Press. <https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-802218-4.00007-8>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[my-approach-to-teaching-mathematics]: ../my-approach-to-teaching-mathematics "My approach to teaching mathematics"
[bad-mindset]: ../../../CASA/bad-mindset "The BAD (Bricolage, Affordances, Distribution) mindset"
[math-connections-activity-type]: math-connections-activity-type "Mathematical Connections Activity Type"
[math-expectations-activity-type]: math-expectations-activity-type "Mathematical Exceptions Activity Type"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"