---
title: Exposure Triangle Scavenger Hunt
description: A photo story created as part of the Focal Point (Reddit) Photography Class 2026 in the form of a scavenger hunt for images demonstrating various exposure triangle concepts.
type: photo-story
tags:
    - photography
    - photo-stories
    - exposure-triangle
---

Photo story arising from [[photoclass-photography-basics|Unit 2 - Photography Basics]] of the [[photoclass-2026|Focal Point (Reddit) Photography Class 2026]]. The scavenger hunt forms the first part of the unit 2 assignment.

## Scavenger hunt items

### Portrait with bokeh

Use a wide aperture and place your subject far from the background to create a shallow depth of field and blurred background.

### Landscape with deep focus

Use a small aperture to keep most or all layers of the scene in sharp focus. 

### Frozen action

Use a fast shutter speed to stop motion. Examples include: jumping, sports, moving vehicles, or fast-moving water.

### Light trails

Use a slow shutter speed to record moving lights at night. 

### Smooth water

Use a slow shutter speed to blur the motion of water in a fountain, river, sink, waterfall, etc.

### Intentional motion blur

Use a slow shutter speed to blur movement creatively. For example, panning a moving subject, or capturing the energy of a busy scene

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[photoclass-photography-basics|Unit 2 - Photography Basics]: ../2026-class/photoclass-photography-basics "Unit 2 - Photography Basics"
[photoclass-2026|Focal Point (Reddit) Photography Class 2026]: ../2026-class/photoclass-2026 "Focal Point (Reddit) Photography Class 2026"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"