---
title: Sticks and no carrots in higher education
type: note
tags:
- sense
- quality
- teaching
---

Notes and reflections on a post by Jason Lodge: [It's all sticks and no carrots in Australian higher education](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/its-all-stick-carrot-australian-higher-education-jason-m-lodge-poy3e/)




## Distallation

As mass redundancies loom across the sector hidden within the [[meso-level]] practitioners involved in supporting quality L&T are being replaced by administrators focused on compliance with regulatory requirements. Requirements that have ballooned in recent years.

Compliance is putting a brake on innovation. Some braking is necessary, but innovation (the accelerator) is also necessary to move forward. At a time when COVID-19 and the rise of GenAI "means that radical, not incremental change is required".

Innovation is happening, but in pockets leading to duplication. Sector-wide enablers of innovation don't exist in higher ed.

The belief that market competition will drive innovation is flawed. Flawed because education is not a commodity. It's a public good. "Sector-wide innovation needs coordinated national support"

!!! note "But our systems make it a commodity"

    Or organisational and sector practices make are adopted straight from business and have no scope for handling this apparently unique nature of education. 
    
    How does national coordinated support isn't likely to change this?

The mass-redundancies are symptomatic of institutions in survival mode. Innovation is off the agenda.

AI represents "the most significant disruption to knowledge work in our lifetimes"

!!! note "Is it hugely different to the 'information superhighway'"

    30 years ago there would've been people saying the same thing about the Internet. History shares how that went (dotcom boom etc). 

    Just how different is GenAI? Just how different will organisational and societal responses to GenAI be?

    There are very specific differences and the GenAI boosters are convinced that this time it is different. However, the dotcom boosters thought the same.

## Initial thoughts

Arguably, I'm one of those forced out of the sector. I've seen and felt this impact. 

The regulartory burden is definitely real. But the question of what/how to support innovation is much trickier. Especially in terms of radical innovation.



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[meso-level]: ../Design/meso-level "Meso-level "
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"