<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This file is part of memex.
 
 memex is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.
 
 memex is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with memex.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Computing project ideas 

See also: [[computing]]

Storage space for misc. ideas for computing projects.

## Open source

### Program office

Two US universities announce an [open-source program office](https://madisoncollege.edu/about/news/madison-college-partners-uw-madison-establish-open-source-program-office)

> The OSPO will develop partnerships with both communities and enterprises, ensuring that the benefits of open-source applications extend across the state and beyond. In partnership with the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF), the OSPO will provide guidance to entrepreneurs on topics such as open-source software licensing, and it will explore ways to support campus entrepreneurship programs. In addition, students from Madison College and UW–Madison will participate in paid open-source development internships, and businesses and other organizations will have opportunities to work with these interns to address real-world challenges.

## Situational Awareness 

### DSA 

[[distributed-situational-awareness]] is the idea of increasing our awareness of issues within distributed systems. Use of digital technology to increase individual/collective awareness of various societal issues. See Salmon et al (2022) 

e.g. from Bridle (2022) 
> In this way, recognition of environmental change is encoded into indigenous history and knowledge. Most of us do not have access to have such extensive cultural memory banks: we are dependent upon the short attention spans of our contemporary knowledge-making technologies. All too often, this blinds us to deeper, longer changes in the world around us. Climate change is a clear example of this: an alteration to the world occurring at such inhuman scales of time and geography that we struggle to fit it into conventional narratives, let alone respond effectively. (p. 115)

> Our tools of data gathering, measurement, recording and viewing can also be used to increase our awareness and broaden our capacity for attention (p. 118)


## References 

Bridle, J. (2022). *Ways of Being: Animals, Plants, Machines: The Search for a Planetary Intelligence*. Penguin UK.

Salmon, P. M., & Plant, K. L. (2022). Distributed situation awareness: From awareness in individuals and teams to the awareness of technologies, sociotechnical systems, and societies. *Applied Ergonomics*, *98*, 103599. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apergo.2021.103599>






[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[computing]: computing "Computing"
[distributed-situational-awareness]: ../Distribution/distributed-situational-awareness "Distributed Situational Awareness"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"