<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This file is part of memex.
 
 memex is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.
 
 memex is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with memex.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Digital humanism 

See also: [[computing]]

## Concepts/ideas 

- [habituating the user](https://codeactsineducation.wordpress.com/2023/06/10/pedagogpt/) an idea that platform companies etc "create training schemes to operate as "habituation programs" - see Williamson et al (2022)
- [making the user friendly](https://codeactsineducation.wordpress.com/2023/06/10/pedagogpt/) - similarly arguing that the aim of tech company training programs is to _make the user friendly_ for all the stuff/assumptions baked into the technology - see Gorur & Dey (2021)

## All Tech is Human 

[All Tech is Human](https://alltechishuman.org/)

> We are committed to co-creating a tech future aligned with the public interest 

## Digital Humanism Initiative 

[Digital Humanism Initiative](https://caiml.org/dighum/) released the [Responsible Tech Guide](https://alltechishuman.org/responsible-tech-guide) - maps the ecosystem

> The Corona-Crisis shows that IT keeps the system running. But at the same time IT is changing our society. We are in the midst of the digital transformation, with computer science and its artifacts as a major driver. We experienced the metamorphosis from the stand-alone computer to the global operating system of our world, a journey leading to yet another industrial revolution: digitizing everything, and automating work and thinking.

> This digital and global operating system integrates, links, and permeates everything: work, leisure, politics, the personal, the professional, and the private. It influences or even shapes actions on a technical, economic, military, and political level.

> Whereas digitalization is opening unprecedented opportunities, it also raising serious concerns: the monopolization of the Web, the rise of extremism orchestrated by social media, the formation of filter bubbles, the loss of privacy, the spread of digital surveillance, automated decision making, and the potential loss of jobs due to automation.

> ... 
> Such an approach starts from several key points:

> -    IT forms a critical building block for our society; it facilitates and drives change, but it also needs rules and guidance.
> -    To understand, to reflect, and to influence this development, we need a multi and interdisciplinary approach, looking at the individual and the society.
> -    It is a global international issue.
> -    The approach needs to be scientific, in the tradition of the enlightenment – and fact based in the best sense.
> -    **People are the central focus. Technology is for people and not the other way round. We need to put “humankind” at the center of our work.**

## references


Gorur, R., & Dey, J. (2021). Making the user friendly: The ontological politics of digital data platforms. *Critical Studies in Education*, *62*(1), 67--81. <https://doi.org/10.1080/17508487.2020.1727544>

Williamson, B., GULSON, K. N., PERROTTA, C., & WITZENBERGER, K. (2022). Amazon and the New Global Connective Architectures of Education Governance. *Harvard Educational Review*, *92*(2), 231--256. <https://doi.org/10.17763/1943-5045-92.2.231>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[computing]: computing "Computing"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"