# Seek

Notes enter memex via numerous tools and wait in the Inbox waiting to be made [[sense]] of.

And there are also things [[to-read]] and some [[zotero-experiments]]

## Questions

Driving questions? 

Digital technologies - personal computers, the Internet, multimedia, business computing, LLMs/AIs... - have held great promise. Many have suggested significant social promise. Yet, the reality has not lived up to the promise. Why? What can be done to improve the situation?

Perhaps the purpose and design of digital technologies has been too commercially focused and insufficiently focused on personal empowerment, social betterment etc? Perhaps people and society aren't ready for individuals to be empowered with the design of digital technologies? 

Harnessing the protean nature of digital technology appears to an undelivered promise. Why? How to change?

The idea of [[distribution]] appears to be core. The [[hacker-ethos-collective-intelligence]] idea when combined with truly distributed technology (Mastodon) are examples.  Perhaps my work echoes this somewhat with the personal, shadow systems, and userscript work.

### How to stretch higher educations the iron triangle

### Models and ways of working: seek/sense/share 


### Web development

How to build and develop Svelte applications/components/userscripts?

### LLMs 

How to understand and leverage LLMs

### Exercise 

What should I be doing to maintain and improve my health?

- Diet 
- Exercise 

## Tools

Tools to explore adding here, include

1. Zotero - academic publications (mostly)
2. Diigo
3. Hypothes.is

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[sense]: ../sense/sense "Sense"
[to-read]: to-read "To read"
[zotero-experiments]: process/zotero-experiments "Experiments with Zotero"
[distribution]: ../sense/Distribution/distribution "Distribution"
[hacker-ethos-collective-intelligence]: ../sense/Distribution/hacker-ethos-collective-intelligence "Hacker Ethos as Collective Intelligence"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"