---
title: About (Colophon)
type: "note"
tags: colophon, about
---

The following tracks the thinking behind the evolution of this site and the purpose it serves its ["author"](https://djon.es/blog/about-2/).

See [[related-work]] for more of the inspirations for this work.

## Purpose

The original intent was inspired by Vannevar Bush [writing in 1945](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/As_We_May_Think) about a device he called Memex as

> a device in which an individual stores all his books, records, and communications, and which is mechanized so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility. It is an enlarged intimate supplement to his memory.

This site isn't going to do all of that. But it is an attempt to be more considered about how I seek, make sense of and share knowledge.

[A 2020 blog post](https://djon.es/blog/2020/07/06/designing-a-personal-memex-with-foam/) gives some origins for this work. I might think and write more about this and the connection with [[ideas-events-people]]

See [the method](#method) section below for more on how this site has evolved.

An on-going task is to figure out [[note-taking-strategies]] to help improve this site.

### To do list

- [[publishing-graph-interface]]
- [[statistics-and-analytics]] - exploring how to improve statistics and analytics for the site and the blog.
- [[improve-static-search]]
- [[comments-webmentions]]
- [[add-activity-pub]] - have the blog post/retrieve comments via ActivityPub.
- expand recent changes

    - Stand alone page that lists all changes, provides graphical representations of frequency etc.

## Method

!!! note "Always emerging out of bricolage"

    This is not a pre-planned site. Instead emerging out of bricolage as I learn and discover new tools.

    i.e. it isn't polished and probably helps me more in thinking than any reader. 

The following tracks the broad evolution of the method behind the implementation of this site through the following phases

1. [Version 3 - early 2025](#version-3-early-2025)
2. [Version 2 - Adding mkdocs - (2nd half 2023)](#version-2-adding-mkdocs-2nd-half-2023)
3. [Version 1 - Initial implementation with Foam using PKM (July 2020)](#version-1-initial-implementation-with-foam-using-pkm-july-2020)

### Version 3 - early 2025

Details on version 3 covered in [[version-3-memex-design]]. Initial work is complete.

Related writing

- early [blog post](https://djon.es/blog/2025/01/12/what-now/) with initial description of the rationale and possibilities for version 3.
- [A new day](https://djon.es/blog/2025/05/23/a-new-day/) authored using the new process for the new blog, this post steps through the process. 

Where [[computational-components]] started being heavily used.

- [x] [[integrate-backlinks-automatically-onto-pages]] completed June 2025

### Version 2 - Adding mkdocs - (2nd half 2023)

- August 20 - [[why-mkdocs-foam]]
- August 26 - [[deploy-with-github-action]]
- November 11 - [[tags-and-properties]] 

Version 2.0 combines [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) - to improve the user-interface for navigation/reading - with the Obsidian/Roam/Notion type authoring/curating functionality provided by [Foam](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/) 
    
Timed with an increased focus on leveraging this site for my [personal learning environment](https://www.downes.ca/cgi-bin/page.cgi?post=71058)

### Version 1 - Initial implementation with Foam using PKM (July 2020)

- July 6 - [Early design](https://djon.es/blog/2020/07/06/designing-a-personal-memex-with-foam/)

### Failed or ceased work

- [[possible-foam-svelte]] - very early thinking about using SvelteKit from when I was tinkering with Svelte. The rapidly changing nature of Svelte (and Javascript in general) and my Python familiarity put pay to this idea.




[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[related-work]: related-work "Related work"
[ideas-events-people]: ../sense/quote-collection/ideas-events-people "Great Minds Discuss Ideas; Average Minds Discuss Events; Small Minds Discuss People"
[note-taking-strategies]: note-taking-strategies "Note taking strategies"
[publishing-graph-interface]: publishing-graph-interface "Publishing graph interface"
[statistics-and-analytics]: statistics-and-analytics "Statistics and Analytics"
[improve-static-search]: improve-static-search "Improve static search"
[comments-webmentions]: comments-webmentions "Comments, webmentions, pingbacks etc"
[add-activity-pub]: add-activity-pub "Adding ActivityPub to the blog"
[version-3-memex-design]: version-3-memex-design "Memex - Version 3"
[computational-components]: computational-components "Computational components"
[integrate-backlinks-automatically-onto-pages]: integrate-backlinks-automatically-onto-pages "Integrate backlinks automatically onto pages"
[why-mkdocs-foam]: why-mkdocs-foam "Why combine mkdocs with Foam"
[deploy-with-github-action]: deploy-with-github-action "Deploy with GitHub Action"
[tags-and-properties]: tags-and-properties "Tags and properties"
[possible-foam-svelte]: ../sense/Web-development/foam-dev/possible-foam-svelte "Possible ideas for a SvelteKit Foam site"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"