---
backlinks:
- title: Improve static search
  url: /memex/colophon/improve-static-search.html
- title: Convert Wordpress into Memex
  url: /memex/colophon/convert-wordpress-into-memex.html
- title: A new day
  url: /memex/share/blog/2025/a-new-day.html
tags:
- colophon
- wordpress
- memex
title: Comparing Wordpress to Memex
type: note
---
Once finished the [[convert-wordpress-into-memex]] process the following outlines some comparisons between the two systems: 

1. Wordpress - the original blog using the Wordpress engine.
2. MkDocs - the new blog using the MkDocs static site generator.

In summary, the MkDocs version is faster, however, it could be improved. Some changes were made but some possible big improvements are not possible. For example, enabling compression could be done using the Material for MkDocs plugin, but it is only available to sponsors.

## What type of testing?

Use of [Web page test](https://www.webpagetest.org/) and [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/) to evaluate and learn more about the performance of the web sites. Using numerous other sites to compare the size of the web pages generated by the two systems. 

## Findings

### Initial

Initially testing with the Web page test and Google PageSpeed showed that the MkDocs version was faster. For example, Webpage test giving performance scores of 81 and 95 (mobile and desktop) for the MkDocs version and 50 and 58 for the Wordpress version for the same individual blog post. The home page - a much larger web page in both systems - was given performance scores for just desktop of 61 (MkDocs) and 39 (Wordpress).  On Best practices and SEO scores MkDocs and Wordpress were equivalent. MkDocs performed somewhat better on Accessibility.

Web page test identified the Google font and render-blocking scripts (e.g. Glightbox) as the two main issues with the MkDocs version. 

### [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview) analysis

Comparison of the ["what now" post](https://djon.es/blog2/2025/01/12/what-now/)

| Criteria | Wordpress | MkDocs |
|----------|-----------|--------|
| Performance | 56 | 77 |
| Accessibility | 79| 84 |
| Best practices | 100 | 100 |
| SEO | 92 | 83 |

!!! warning "Server response time"

    Server response time was identified as significant on both. Suggesting that the connection between hosting provider and me is an issue.

Issues identified

- The search index for Material for MkDocs is the most significant (just over 14Mb) bit of content for the MkDocs version.
- Image elements are missing the `alt` attribute. e.g. Cover images for blog posts. **fixed**
- CC-BY-NC-SA logo and link could be improved - add width/height and name the link **fixed**
- size of included image **fixed**
- Applying common optimisation techniques - **not available** - Material for MkDocs has an optimisation plugin, but only available to sponsors


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[convert-wordpress-into-memex]: convert-wordpress-into-memex "Convert Wordpress into Memex"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"