---
title: Integrate backlinks automatically onto pages
type: "note"
tags: 
    - colophon
    - about
---

Remove the need for "see also" and better allow navigation through structure - by adding to a page links back to pages that link to the current page

## Example

See [lzrd.dev](https://lzrd.dev/memex/athena)

- Adds _backlinks_ to the header
- [Implemented using 11ty](https://gitlab.com/lzrddev/athena)
- Has a simple function for [generating backlinks]

## Design

Use some form of [[computational-components]] to generate backlinks for each page. Perhaps something like [[blog-statistics]] using a combination of

1. mkdocs-gen-files - to modify the frontmatter of each page to include backlinks
2. mkdocs-macros-plugins - add the backlinks into the page content via a macro, perhaps in the template.

!!! failure "Adding to frontmatter problematic"

    Will require translation of wikilinks to HTML links. Not sure this can be done easily.

Suggesting better to add the backlinks directly to the page content. Given this is from `mkdocs-gen-files` is may/may not change the actual page content????

### What is a backlink?

[All the pages that link to the current page](https://www.notion.com/help/create-links-and-backlinks). Also shows Obsidian's nice interface for backlinks. A crafted bullet list/almost drop down menu of backlinks.

Intially showing _<x> backlinks_ just under the title of the page. Clicking on that element expands the list of all backlinks.

```
pageBackLinks = {}
#- loop thru all pages in memex
for page in allPages:
    #-- loop thru all links in the page
    for link in page.links:
        if link not internal:
            continue
        #-- add any internal link to the backlinks
        #   dict of dicts 
        #   { page : { link1: <numLink>, link2: <numLink>, ... } }
        if link not in pageBackLinks.keys:
            pageBackLinks[link] = {}
        if page.link not in pageBackLinks[link]:
            pageBackLinks[link][page] = 0
        #-- increment the count of backlinks for this page  
        pageBackLinks[link][page] += 1
```

## Implementation

### Can a macro work in a template?

As a trial run, implement 

- [ ] macro which displays content of yaml['type']
- [ ] add it to a template

🤯 Of course, could just use Jinja2 templating to show yaml content.

### Will running gen-files on all markdown have mkdocs serve restarting?

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[computational-components]: computational-components "Computational components"
[blog-statistics]: blog-statistics "Blog Statistics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"