---
tags:
- colophon
- birding
title: Life list generator
type: note
---

[Python script](https://github.com/djplaner/memex/blob/master/util/generators/lifeList.py) to generate a birding [life-list](../sense/birdwatching/life-list.md) and a [life-list-gallery](../sense/birdwatching/life-list-gallery.md) from an [eBird](https://ebird.org/home) CSV file and a collection of relevant photos. 

## History

[Originally implemented](#initial-design) as a stand alone Python script to be run manually. Now updated to be integrated into the `mkdocs` process through the use of `mkdocs-gen-files` moving to a _[[computational-components]]_ approach.

- 📅 20 June 2025 - Photos moved to assets folder utility

    Added script to export chosen photos from Photos library to an appropriate folder in the assets folder - `addBirdPhoto.py`.

- 📅 Late December 2025 - 🚧 🚧  [Update to move](#wood-duck-observations) to [[wood-duck-observations]] approach


## Initial design

### Purpose

Take two inputs placed within a specific folder within memex

1. eBird life list CSV; and,
2. a collection of images.

Generate three types of markdown files:

1. LIFE_LIST_PAGE: Markdown file containing table with data about all birds in the life list.
2. GALLERY_PAGE: Markdown file providing a gallery of all bird images.
3. Individual bird pages: Each bird with photos gets its own markdown file in the LIFE_LIST_FOLDER with the bird's name in camelCase

### Manual set up

1. Obtain and update the eBird life list CSV file.

    Login into eBird site and download CSV file. Coping it into memex

### To do

Bird pages

- Provide additional information about birds on bird pages
- Improve navigation between bird pages

Life list

- pre-sort life list table by # of photos
- Organise life list by year
- Provide some summary statistics

### Dev log

#### mkdocs-gen-files

Change the path for files and add the script to the `mkdocs.yml` file and it's sort of working.

Initial issue is that the modifications to the different bird pages is causing `mkdocs serve` to continually restart. First attempted solution is to use `mkdocs_gen_files.open` to write the files. It seems to have worked.

## Wood duck observations

Update to adopt the [[wood-duck-observations]] approach where observations are stored in individual markdown files which can include images and textual description.

User process

- Observations are made through photos imported into Photos app
- A script (`addBirdPhoto.py`) is used to move observation (of a single bird species) into Memex
  - export selected photos from Photos app into a specific folder in the assets folder
  - create or update a markdown file for the observation
    - frontmatter fields added
    - default introduction (link to wikipedia?)
    - images from the observation
  - Create the relevant bird species page if it does not already exist

Requirements

- Folders etc for markdown files `sense/birdwatching/birds/` with sub-folders

    - `observations/` - for individual observation markdown files
    - `species/` - for individual bird species pages

- Existing folder in `assets` to hold the bird photos
    
- Each existing bird observation image (45) will need to be added to a markdown file - there may be multiple images per observation
- Each bird species needs its own page that uses the `observations` macro (e.g. `observations('bird', <species>)`) which gathers the content of the relevant markdown files and displays them on the bird page.
- Modify `addBirdPhoto.py` to create the markdown files as well as copy the images to the assets folder 
  - Would need the HTML template from the existing life-list-generator for each photo
  - the ability to add photos to an existing markdown file
  - What else might the markdown file need?
    - title
    - date observed
    - location observed
    - type
    - species name (for macro use)
    - URL 


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[computational-components]: computational-components "Computational components"
[wood-duck-observations]: wood-duck-observations "Wood Duck observations"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"