---
title: Thinking about 'memex v2'
type: note
tags: 
    - colophon
    - about
---

See also: [[colophon]]

Thoughts on how to modify my approach to [[seek]]/[[sense]]/[[share]] in post work life.

Bush's original Memex concept aiming to be a place for someone to store "stores all his books, records, and communications, and which is mechanized so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility. It is an enlarged intimate supplement to his memory."

## Related

- [Plea](https://mas.to/@kissane/113392528258484984) for an "open-source read-later + Obsidian or equivalent + Zotero + simple blogging with blog or something" from a tech co-op

## Underlying themes aims

### Purpose

Illich (1977) suggests that "masturbatory self-indulgence might be the safest assertion of independence" available to people in contemporary society. In our post work life we're trying a different approach.

I'm no longer an academic.

### Technical

- Wordpress has moved on in troubling ways.
- AI and the scraping of data to feed it, plus troubling aspects of github might suggest a move.

## Current approach

https://djon.es/ is my personal domain and home page. With a historical Wordpress blog at https://djon.es/blog/.

The memex site is hosted at https://djplaner.github.io/memex/ on GitHub pages.

## References

Illich, I., Zola, I. K., McKnight, J., Caplan, J., & Shaiken, H. (1977). *Disabling Professions*. Marion Boyars.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[colophon]: colophon "About (Colophon)"
[seek]: ../seek/seek "Seek"
[sense]: ../sense/sense "Sense"
[share]: ../share/share "Share"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"