---
tags:
- colophon
- bad
title: Some Assemblage Required
type: note
---
!!! note "🚧  Work in progress 🚧"

    Still figuring out the shape and content of this page.

At it's simplest, this page is about the [technology](#technology) used to construct this site. But what is technology? the answer I like [[drons-technology|draws on Arthur's definition of technology]] as "the orchestration of phenomena for some purpose". It's not just the technology, but the way in which it is gathered and woven together to augment a multitude of purposes.

Hence the idea of **some assemblage required**

## Technology

<div class="grid cards" markdown>


- ✍  __Author__

    ---

    Markdown files are created using VSCode and numerous extensions. The most important being the [Foam knowledge management system](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/).

    The real value comes from the [orchestration](#orchestration) of numerous other assemblages used to gather, weave, and augment content.

- 📢  __Publish__ 

    ---
    
    [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) converts the Markdown files into HTML. Various [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) plugins are used to enhance the site, including enabling a handful of [[computational-components]] that programmatically [[gather-weave-augment]] content. 
    
    The site is hosted by [Reclaim Hosting](https://reclaimhosting.com).

- 👓  __Search__

    ---

    [Pagefind](https://pagefind.app/) is used to provide search functionality. 

</div>

## Orchestration

Core to the quality of this site is influenced by how the above is orchestrated into how I gather, weave, and augment the information/insight from various source and for different purposes. 

!!! note "Improvement needed"

    This is where my practices need to improve.

Still need to refine and formalise my [[note-taking-strategies]] and ponder if/how/what it means to move beyond simply taking notes for a "Second Brain". How might I leverage leveraging the [[nodt|nature of digital technology]] to help gather, weave, and augment content generated for every day activities - work mostly being done by [[computational-components]].

## Purpose

All of the above should search some purpose, in my case different purposes, including:

- General [[pkm|personal knowledge management]] of whatever topics I find interesting.
- Documenting and sharing [[regeneration]] practices on our [[wood-duck-meadows|home block]], including the [[plants]] and related hobbies such as [[birding]].
- Preparing for and sharing any [[travel]] we undertake.
- ??more to come??

## Thinking out loud

Intent being to explain that "memex" is more than a website. A collection of files (HTML and images) accessed via a web browser. That listing the technology behind the site is insufficient to explain what goes into the site.

Drawing on ideas like

- [[assemblage|Assemblage "theory"]]
- [[bricolage]] and [[bad-mindset]], [[casa]], and [[gather-weave]]
- [[digital-weaver]] and [[digital-renovator]]
- [[orchestration]] especially as used in [[drons-technology|Dron's definition of technology]]
- The [[nodt|nature of digital technology]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[drons-technology|draws on Arthur's definition of technology]: ../sense/nodt/drons-technology "Dron's take on technology"
[computational-components]: computational-components "Computational components"
[gather-weave-augment]: ../sense/CASA/gwa/gather-weave-augment "Gather, Weave, Augment"
[note-taking-strategies]: note-taking-strategies "Note taking strategies"
[nodt|nature of digital technology]: ../sense/nodt/nodt "Nature of Digital Technology (nodt)"
[pkm|personal knowledge management]: ../pkm "Personal Knowledge Management"
[regeneration]: ../sense/landscape-garden/regeneration "Bush regeneration (Wood duck meadows)"
[wood-duck-meadows|home block]: ../sense/landscape-garden/wood-duck-meadows "Wood duck meadows"
[plants]: ../sense/landscape-garden/plants/plants "Plants"
[birding]: ../sense/birdwatching/birding "Birding"
[travel]: ../travel/travel "Travel"
[assemblage|Assemblage "theory"]: ../sense/Distribution/assemblage "Assemblage"
[bricolage]: ../sense/Bricolage/bricolage "Bricolage"
[bad-mindset]: ../sense/CASA/bad-mindset "The BAD (Bricolage, Affordances, Distribution) mindset"
[casa]: ../sense/CASA/casa "Contextually Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA)"
[gather-weave]: ../sense/CASA/gather-weave "Gather and weave"
[digital-weaver]: ../sense/computing/digital-weaver "Digital Weaver"
[digital-renovator]: ../sense/computing/digital-renovator "Digital Renovator"
[orchestration]: ../sense/orchestration "Orchestration"
[drons-technology|Dron's definition of technology]: ../sense/nodt/drons-technology "Dron's take on technology"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"