---
title: Wood duck work history
type: note
tags:
- colophon
- wood-duck-meadows
- computational-components
---

!!! note "🚧  Work in progress 🚧"

Method to [[gather-weave-augment]] the work history of [[wood-duck-meadows]]

## Implementation plan

- [x] Create the data
- [x] Modify corpusActions - exclude work-history files
- [x] Implement utility class
- [x] Implement `regionWorkHistory`
- [x] Implement `woodDuckWorkHistory`
- [ ] Updating website to use work history
    - [[brigalow-scrub]]	
    - [[gatton-creek-frontage]]
    - [[cherry-tree-walk]]	Path along the front berm lined with cherry trees
    - [[front-yard]]	Semi-open area between the house the front entrance
    - [[mango-paddock]]	South-western paddock now with two mango trees
    - [[the-island]]	The island in the-dam
    - [[the-dam]]	Surrounds the-island and fed by road run-off
    - [[roundabout]]	Long established lawn and path
    - [[rocky-creek-frontage]]	Creek frontage to the east of the round about
    - [[house]]	House, stables, sheds and surrounding gardens
    - [[pecan-corner]]	Pecan and other fruit/nut trees
    - [[lower-dam]]	Dam area on the Gatton creek frontage
    - [[vegetable-beds]]	Our foray into vegetable gardening located just above the lower-dam
    - [[orchard-corner]]	A nascent grove at the southern end of the property
    - [[horse-paddock]]	The largest cleared space on the property that used to form the main horse paddock. Contains the the-circle.
    - [[the-circle]]	Small collection of trees in the middle of the main horse paddock
    - [[fig-tree-berm]]	Pre-existing berm near the bunker
    - [[the-bunker]]	Small building and the area in front of it in the north-eastern corner of the propery
    - [[back-corner]]

## Design

### Requirements

Record the daily work done with links to the relevant regions and plants.

Display the information in different ways, including:

- Each region maintains a "history" section summarising the relevant work.
- Eventually have a Wood duck history page that enables interactive exploration of the work done across the entire site. Including queries based on region and date.

### Implementation

Data entry

- Maintain a folder with a index page linking to individual files for any day where work is done.

Data use

- Regions computational component (macro)

    Parse the work files and develop a list of work done for the region. This is then displayed on the region page.

- landscape-garden/wood-duck-meadows/wood-duck-work-history.md

    Generated by the computational component after reading the work files

- region pages

    Work history table for the given region.

Data

- landscape-garden/wood-duck-meadows/work-files/

    Folder that contains individual markdown files for each day work is done. Files organised into years.

- landscape-garden/wood-duck-meadows/work-files/<yyyy>/<filename>.md

    Individual markdown file for work on a day/time period. Frontmatter will contain a collection of specific information (date/time period, region, ???). Content is the description 


| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Date | Date of the work done a date field or range |
| Region | Name of the region(s) where the work was done. |

Code

- Class `workHistory` to read all the work history data

    Provide an iterator to iterate in various ways through the work history data. Utility class for other code.

- macro `regionWorkHistory`

    Passed the name of a region, generate the table work history to add to the region page.

- macro `woodDuckWorkHistory`

    Generate the work history page for Wood duck meadows. 

### corpus.py

A class to ready the work history, but eventually become something used by corpusActions.


```python
from util.corpus import corpus
workHistory = corpus( type="<type>")

## iterate through the work history
for work in workHistory:
    print(work.date, work.region, work.description)
```





[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[gather-weave-augment]: ../sense/CASA/gwa/gather-weave-augment "Gather, Weave, Augment"
[wood-duck-meadows]: ../sense/landscape-garden/wood-duck-meadows "Wood duck meadows"
[brigalow-scrub]: ../sense/landscape-garden/brigalow-scrub "Brigalow scrub"
[gatton-creek-frontage]: ../sense/landscape-garden/gatton-creek-frontage "Gatton creek frontage"
[cherry-tree-walk]: ../sense/landscape-garden/cherry-tree-walk "Cherry Tree walk"
[front-yard]: ../sense/landscape-garden/front-yard "Front yard"
[mango-paddock]: ../sense/landscape-garden/mango-paddock "Mango paddock"
[the-island]: ../sense/landscape-garden/the-island "The Island"
[the-dam]: ../sense/landscape-garden/the-dam "The Dam"
[roundabout]: ../sense/landscape-garden/roundabout "Roundabout"
[rocky-creek-frontage]: ../sense/landscape-garden/rocky-creek-frontage "Rocky Creek Frontage"
[house]: ../sense/landscape-garden/house "House"
[pecan-corner]: ../sense/landscape-garden/pecan-corner "Pecan corner"
[lower-dam]: ../sense/landscape-garden/lower-dam "The lower dam"
[vegetable-beds]: ../sense/landscape-garden/vegetable-beds "Vegetable Beds"
[orchard-corner]: ../sense/landscape-garden/orchard-corner "The Orchard (Orchard corner)"
[horse-paddock]: ../sense/landscape-garden/horse-paddock "Horse paddock"
[the-circle]: ../sense/landscape-garden/the-circle "The Circle"
[fig-tree-berm]: ../sense/landscape-garden/fig-tree-berm "Fig tree berm"
[back-corner]: ../sense/landscape-garden/back-corner "The back corner"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"