---
title: Design for the margins
type: "note"
tags: design, technology
---

See also: [[technology-changes-us]]

Idea from Agre (1997) which I'm still finding out and thinking about. There is a lot here which resonates with experiences with [[bad-mindset]]

My current take

- Technical practice must draw upon schemata/understandings of the world/task of interest which are in turn systematised/implemented by the technological practice
- As with anyone with a certain schemata of the world, new knowledge of world/task are either ignored or appropriated into/understood as part of the existing schemata (assimilation) - (Piaget and co. probably have something to say on this) 
- Mainly because these are seen as 'central' - easily assimilated and "marginal" (not easily assimilated) cases 

Leading to the the technical practice "persistently" failing "to produced reasonable accounts of the phenomena it treats as marginal" (Agre, 1997, p. 45)

## Design implications

Leshed et al (2008) suggest an implication for design is 

> to innovate by explicitly designing for the margins of technical practices and thereby introducing new metaphors

## References

Agre, P. E. (1997). Metaphor in practice. In *Computation and Human Experience* (pp. 27--48). Cambridge University Press. <https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511571169.003>

Leshed, G., Velden, T., Rieger, O., Kot, B., & Sengers, P. (2008). In-car gps navigation: Engagement with and disengagement from the environment. *Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems*, 1675--1684. <https://doi.org/10.1145/1357054.1357316>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[technology-changes-us]: technology-changes-us "Technology Changes us"
[bad]: ../../CASA/bad "BAD - Bricolage Affordances Distribution"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"