<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This file is part of memex.
 
 memex is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.
 
 memex is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with memex.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# The relationships between BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave

Over the last 10+ years colleagues and I have been reflecting on experiences trying to stretch the [[iron-triangle]]. That work has resulted in three different abstractions/mini-theories:

1. The [[bad]]/set (Bricolage, Affordances, Distribution / Strategic, Established, Tree-like) framework (Jones & Clark, 2014) and [related blog posts](https://djon.es/blog/category/bad/)
2. [[CASA]] - Context Appropriate Scaffolding Assessmblages (Jones, Lawson, Beer, & Jones, 2018; Jones, 2019) and [related blog posts](https://djon.es/blog/category/casa/)
3. The idea of [[gather-weave-augment]] ([Jones, 2022](https://djon.es/blog/2022/10/10/orchestrating-entangled-relations-to-stretch-the-iron-triangle-observations-from-an-lms-migration/#poster); [Booten, Cook, & Jones, 2023](https://djon.es/blog/2023/02/09/gathers-weavers-and-augmenters-three-principles-for-dynamic-and-sustainable-delivery-of-quality-learning-and-teaching/))

This page is an attempt to explore the relationships between these three mini-theories.  It's a work in progress.

## An initial explanation 

This all takes place within the challenge of helping higher education institutions (HEI) grow access to higher education while maximising both quality and cost efficiency (i.e. stretch the [[iron-triangle]]).

### BAD/SET

The [[bad]]/SET mindsets provide a description of two (arguably) incommensurable approaches to doing this. The SET mindset describes how institutions try to stretch the iron triangle. The BAD mindset describes how individual teachers/teaching teams try to stretch the iron triangle. We argued that there needed to be a way to interweave both these approaches (Jones & Clark, 2014)

### CASA 

As the name suggests - contextually-appropriate scaffolding assemblages - CASA are collections of practices, processes, technologies etc designed to help support a specific L&T activity. Collections that follow the [CASA design principles](https://djon.es/blog/2019/08/08/exploring-knowledge-reuse-in-design-for-digital-learning-tweaks-h5p-constructive-templates-and-casa/#initial-design-principles-adr-stage-4) are thought to be more effective at interweaving the SET and BAD approaches.





## References 

Jones, D., Lawson, C., Beer, C., & Jones, H. (2018). Context-Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages: A generative learning analytics platform for end-user development and participatory design. *Companion Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge*.




## References

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[iron-triangle]: ../Design/iron-triangle "Iron Triangle"
[bad]: bad "BAD - Bricolage Affordances Distribution"
[CASA]: casa "Contextually Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA)"
[gather-weave-augment]: ../Design/gather-weave-augment "Gather, Weave, and Augment"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"