# Average Canvas quiz results 

See [[casa-gallery]]

## Example seen in chat

Would like the students to complete a weekly quiz. But have the opportunity to improve their marks in week 12 by completing those quizzes again (huge question banks, so really new quiz) to get an average of the score.  

The quizzes were original set for 1 attempt, but then in week 11 changed that to 2 attempts and average the scores
 
But we came across a couple of idiosyncrasies that we'd be interested if anyone has any ideas or thoughts on
	
If a student doesn't do the first weekly quiz but gets a great mark in week 12, they just get the week 12 mark.  We thought, ok, lets set a default mark of 0 for anyone who hadn't done the first quiz, but they doesn't count as an attempt so doesn't get included in the avg and they still get the week 12 mark.  This disadvantages the poor student who had a crack in week x and bombed, but then studied hard and nailed it in week 12, but gets dragged back down.  
		
- might as well just have the highest score, but it got us thinking there might be times you do want to force an average across 2 attempts but you cant.
- we also played around with adding an additional attempt for those students who did the first attempt through the Quiz  Moderation screen.  but the problem there is you can't average those 2 scores and the student who didn't do the first quiz, still has one attempt available.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[casa-gallery]: casa-gallery "CASA Gallery"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"