---
title: 95% of generative AI pilots at companies fail
type: note
tags:
- genai
- llm
- shadow-systems
---


[Fortune article](https://fortune.com/2025/08/18/mit-report-95-percent-generative-ai-pilots-at-companies-failing-cfo/) reporting on MIT project's research report (which is behind a form)

> about 5% of AI pilot programs achieve rapid revenue acceleration; the vast majority stall, delivering little to no measurable impact on P&L. The research—based on 150 interviews with leaders, a survey of 350 employees, and an analysis of 300 public AI deployments—paints a clear divide between success stories and stalled projects.

> The core issue? Not the quality of the AI models, but the “learning gap” for both tools and organizations.

Lead author suggests that "flawed enterprise integration". Arguing that ChatGPT works for individuals due to flexibility, "but they stall in enterprise use since they don't learn from or adapt to workflows"

Also most genAI budgets ae devoted to sales and marketing tools. But MIT research suggests biggest ROI is from back office automation.

More success from partnering with "specialised vendors and building partnerships..., while internal builds succeed one-third as often"

> Other key factors for success include empowering line managers—not just central AI labs—to drive adoption, and selecting tools that can integrate deeply and adapt over time.

## Reflection

I see echoes of [[shadow-system|shadow systems]] here. Just plonking down IT systems that doesn't flex and respond to contextual need.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[shadow-system|shadow systems]: ../CASA/shadow-system "Shadow (feral) system"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"