---
title: 'Great Minds Discuss Ideas; Average Minds Discuss Events; Small Minds Discuss People'
type: 'note'
tags: quotes, pkm
---

See also: [[quotes]]

> Great Minds Discuss Ideas; Average Minds Discuss Events; Small Minds Discuss People

Quote often attributed to Eleanor Roosevelt. But first published quote seems to be [from Stewart (1901) quoting Buckle](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2014/11/18/great-minds/) building on ideas about desirable forms of conversation.

> Men and women range themselves into three classes or orders of intelligence; you can tell the lowest class by their habit of always talking about persons; the next by the fact that their habit is always to converse about things; the highest by their preference for the discussion of ideas.

Suggestive of a hierarchy of intelligence/preference. Apparent idea being that discussing events and ideas required some increasing levels of cognitive application (information, intelligence and reflection).

## Issues

Stewart (1901) suggested that focusing on one level of the hierarchy alone would be problematic. At least

> any of one’s friends who was incapable of a little intermingling of these condiments would soon be consigned to the home for dull dogs.

Other questions/issues might be

- Are these the only/best layers in the hierarchy? 
- Are there other criteria of measuring the 

## Resources

- [Quote investigator](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2014/11/18/great-minds/)


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[quotes]: quotes "Quotes"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"