# ASCILITE 2022

- [[ascilite 2022 sensemaking]] 

## To read


- Kitto - [How can EdTech support graduate employability?](https://publications.ascilite.org/index.php/APUB/article/view/184)
- [Defining a next-generation ecosystem for online learning: from changing the platform to shifting the paradigm](https://publications.ascilite.org/index.php/APUB/article/view/193)
- Towards Supporting Dialogic Feedback Processes Using Learning Analytics: the Educators’ Views on Effective Feedback

## Presentations

- [Day 1](ascilite2022-day-one.md)


## Reflections

### Where's the digital? Where's the learning?

A drive for the ASCILITE crowd is something like help teachers and those designing teaching figure out how to creatively and sustainably provide effective L&T experiences/environments.

Examples include Glazier's (2021) suggestions for building human connections online, which the keynote presented as the following

1. Humanize the instructor 
2. Provide personalized feedback 
3. Reach out to students 
4. Support student peer collaboration

There was the _6 principles for digital learning innovation_ ([Adachi et al 2022](https://publications.ascilite.org/index.php/APUB/article/view/140)) which were

1. Create a safe place for new ideas
2. Keep focused on your purposes.
3. Keep focused on your users.
4. Be ethical.
5. Start small and build up.
6. Think holistically

What strikes me about both these is that they say nothing about "digital". They apply more broadly. Glazier's to L&T in any context. The digital learning principles are more generic again. Nothing specific in those about digital or learning. Could equally apply to QANTAS as a university.

Where is the digital? What is the role of digital? 

### The missing last mile? Orchestration? Meddler in the middle?

McWilliam's ([2009](https://eprints.qut.edu.au/32389/1/c32389.pdf)) addition of "meddler in the middle" to the "sage on the stage" and "guide one the side" got a [mention somewhere at the conference](https://twitter.com/leanner000/status/1599571032708636672). Apparently related [to this blog post](https://warburton.typepad.com/liquidlearning/2022/03/claiming-the-middle-ground-the-agile-and-adaptive-educator.html) which appeared in Campus Morning Mail. A post that describes McWilliam's distinction between the three roles and includes a call for folk likely to be in the ASCILITE crowd to avoid being either sages or guides and become more likely meddlers.

I'm wondering how what is being presented at ASCILITE fits into these three roles? In turn, this begs the question about where our institutional L&T practices might fit?

It is important to restate McWilliam's point (2009, p. 287-288) that
> Both Sage-on-the-Stage and Guide-on-the-Side have their place in the complex landscape that is teaching....In other words, the meta-categories “Sage” and “Guide” can themselves be representative of a complexity of pedagogical moves, not a simple formula.

Glazier's (2021) principles for building human connection online strike me as guide on the side. As does Deakin's [tools guide](https://tl-tools-guide.deakin.edu.au/) ([Colasante et al, 2022](https://publications.ascilite.org/index.php/APUB/article/view/118)). Useful guides for navigating complex decisions about how to create good L&T experiences/environments. Potentially developing such guide's become an "excuse...to 'step out' of the main game" (McWilliam, 2009, p. 287). i.e. rather than engage actively in the process of developing those learning experiences, central L&T focuses attention on the guides. 

Obviously the people at ASCILITE and the roles they represent in institutional L&T are not seeking to "step out" of that process. Some are very much involved in it. Instead, my question is if/how/what/where are the ASCILITE papers that talk about that active engagement in the main game?

McWilliams' (2009) description is
> of a third meta-category geared up for creative capacity building – that of Meddler-in-the-Middle. This meta-category is descriptive of active interventionist pedagogy in which teachers are mutually involved with students in assembling and/or dis-assembling knowledge and cultural products.

What does an ASCILITE paper that talks (and the institutional practices/experience it reports on) about the experience of being mutually involved in the assembling and/or dis-assembling of L&T experiences look like? What am I missing?

That's what I need to be looking for now.

Does the nature of meddling make it hard to write papers? To get recognition?

Phil Dawson

- Lot of the tech at ASCILITE is what we do to students, AI tech is something that has its own agency and likely to be done to us



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[ascilite 2022 sensemaking]: <ascilite 2022 sensemaking> "Sensemaking - ASCILITE 2022"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"