---
title: Gather, Weave, Augment
type: note
description: Description and resources related to the concept of gather, weave, augment as a way to consider the value/major uses of technology (esp. digital technology).
tags:
  - gather-weave-augment
  - CASA
  - BAD
  - SET
---

## Background

Much of what we do involves technology. Arthur (2009) defines technology as "the orchestration of phenomena for some purpose" (see [[drons-technology]]). Phenomena includes stuff that is "real or imagined, mental or physical, designed or existing in the natural world" (Dron, 2021, p. 2). Language is a technology that orchestrates the phenomena of sounds and symbols for the purpose of communication. A hammer orchestrates material, gravity, and external force for the purpose of driving nails.

The "gather, weave, and augment" idea arose out of [work in higher education learning and teaching enhancement](https://djon.es/blog/2023/02/09/gathers-weavers-and-augmenters-three-principles-for-dynamic-and-sustainable-delivery-of-quality-learning-and-teaching/) thinking about how we could improve how we orchestrated digital technology to support learning and teaching.

The idea is that an activity being supported with digital technology involves the three key functions of _gathering_ information, _weaving_ disparate information together, and _augmenting_ that information in some way.

!!! note "Contextual customisation as the missing element"

  A key idea from the original work is that the type of gather/weave/augment supported by most digital technology - especially institutionally approved digital technology in organisations - is generic with limited capacity for specific contextual customisation.

  That absence is typically addressed through either significant manual human activity or [[shadow-system|shadow systems]]. See more [[bad_set-casa-gather-weave|relationship between the ideas of BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave/Augument]].

## Related resources

- [[gatherers-weavers-augmenters]] draft of the blog post associated with a conference presentation
- An exploration of the [[bad_set-casa-gather-weave|relationship between various "mini-theories"]].
- Related [[gather-weave-literature]]
- Some incomplete thinking on [[gatherers]]
- An attempt to conceptualising [[teaching-as-gather-weave-augment]] and some literature talking about [[teaching-as-interweaving]]
- A connection made between the idea of weaving and [[digital-renovator]] and arriving at [[digital-weaver]]

## 🚧 thinking out loud 🚧 

Examining each of gather/weave/augment might provide guidance 

- What's the relationship between seek/sense/share etc. [[pkm-ask-gather-weave-augment|PKM ask gather/weave/augment]]

### Points to ponder

Agentic AI, LLMs etc

- Agentic AI automating gather/weave/augment, what are the drawbacks?
- How does it differ from Robotic Process [[automation]]?

### Gather

Are you free/able to gather from the broadest possible range of sources? What are the barriers on which strands can be used?

### Weave

How easily and effectively can different strands be woven together?

### Augment

Augmenting what? What is the purpose? Whose purpose? 




[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[drons-technology]: ../../nodt/drons-technology "Dron's take on technology"
[shadow-system|shadow systems]: ../shadow-system "Shadow (feral) system"
[bad_set-casa-gather-weave|relationship between the ideas of BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave/Augument]: ../bad_set-casa-gather-weave "The relationships between BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave"
[gatherers-weavers-augmenters]: ../../Paper-Ideas/gatherers-weavers-augmenters "Gatherers, Weavers and Augmenters: Three principles for dynamic and sustainable delivery of quality learning and teaching"
[bad_set-casa-gather-weave|relationship between various "mini-theories"]: ../bad_set-casa-gather-weave "The relationships between BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave"
[gather-weave-literature]: ../gather-weave-literature "Literature and quotes mentioning gather/weave concepts"
[gatherers]: ../../Paper-Ideas/gatherers "Gatherers, weavers and augmenters"
[teaching-as-gather-weave-augment]: ../../Teaching/teaching-as-gather-weave-augment "Teaching as gathering, weaving, and augmenting"
[teaching-as-interweaving]: ../../Teaching/teaching-as-interweaving "Teaching as interweaving"
[digital-renovator]: ../../computing/digital-renovator "Digital Renovator"
[digital-weaver]: ../../computing/digital-weaver "Digital Weaver"
[pkm-ask-gather-weave-augment|PKM ask gather/weave/augment]: pkm-ask-gather-weave-augment "PKM ask gather/weave/augment"
[automation]: ../../Affordances/automation "Automation"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"