# Strategic Planning

Need to specify the strategic goals of the institution and the methods to be used.

[Issues-based approach](http://managementhelp.org/blogs/strategic-planning/2010/05/17/should-i-use-goals-based-or-issues-based-planning/) to strategic planning is an alternative to goal-based.  It allows the focus to remain on the present, rather than some imaginary future. Also [other models.](http://managementhelp.org/strategicplanning/models.htm)

Will eventually need responsibilities and timelines - management plan.

## SMART versus SMARTER

Goals should be Specific, Measurable, Acceptable, Realistic, Timely, Extend the capabilities of the group, and Rewarding.

[Arguments exist](https://hbr.org/2017/01/3-popular-goal-setting-techniques-managers-should-avoid) that SMART goals are a problem, in part due to 35 years of research on goal setting shows

- Setting specific, difficult goals consistently leads to higher performance than just urging people to do their best.
- High goals generate greater effort than low goals, and the highest or most difficult goals produce the greatest levels of effort and performance.
- Tight deadlines lead to a more rapid work pace than loose deadlines.
- Making a public commitment to a goal enhances personal commitment.
- Whether the goal is set by mutual agreement or by the boss alone doesn’t make a big difference in goal achievement.

## Related 

- [[bricolage]]



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[bricolage]: ../bricolage.md "Bricolage"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"