---
backlinks:
- title: Bush regeneration (Wood duck meadows)
  url: /sense/landscape-garden/regeneration.html
- title: Regeneration strategies
  url: /sense/landscape-garden/strategies/regeneration-strategies.html
tags:
- regeneration
- soil
title: Improving soil
type: note
---
!!! warning "Tentative single source information"

    The following is based solely on the content of the first video in the resources below.

Improving the quality of the soil is a key part of [[regeneration|bush regeneration]], gardening, or any other approach to using the land. A key part of improving soil for plant growth is the presence and activity of soil microbes. 

## Soil microbes

Arguably, there are two approaches to enhancing the presence and activity of soil microbes:

1. Adding microbes to the soil.

    e.g. commercial products or home-made produces like [[weed-tea]]

2. Adding microbe food to the soil.

    e.g. compost or other organic matter.

One argument is that soil microbes are already present in soil and working at capacity. Adding more microbes will not work, instead the need is to add food for the microbes.

## ++Cover crops == ++roots == ++soil microbes

More crops growing mean there are more roots in the soil. Plant roots are placing various chemicals which in turn aid microbes.

Hence bare soil is seen as bad. It is better to have something growing in the soil, even if it is a weed.

More roots is seen as better than laying compost.

## Resources

- Video - [We have been doing it wrong! - Making healthy soil is NOW easier than we ever thought](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SY-di0xmeh4&t=330s)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[regeneration|bush regeneration]: ../regeneration "Bush regeneration (Wood duck meadows)"
[weed-tea]: ../techniques/weed-tea "Weed tea"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"