---
backlinks:
- title: Learning computer science
  url: /memex/sense/computing/learning-cs/learning-computer-science.html
tags:
- er-modelling
- sql
- database-design
- computing
title: ER modelling and SQL
type: note
---
Revisiting data modelling ER models and SQL.

- [[functional-dependencies]]
- [[normal-forms]]

Three steps in an ER design methodology

1. Building a one-entity diagram
2. Using structured english to describe a database
3. mapping the ER diagram to a relational database

Abstraction layers

1. _Conceptual model_ - an abstract data description (e.g. ERD)
2. _Logical model_ - a data description that is independent of the physical implementation (e.g. the relational or logical models)
3. _Physical model_ - a data description that is dependent on the physical implementation (e.g. SQL)

## ER Diagrams (ERD)

ERDs are a subset of "semantic models". Intended to produce a high-level database model disconnected from any particular logical model (relational, hierarchical, object-oriented, or network)

An ERD is a semantic model that describes a world in terms of 

- _entities_ - a thing or object in the real world with an independent existence. 
- _attributes_ - a property or characteristic of an entity.

    Different kinds of attributes: simple or atomic, composite, multi-valued, and derived.
- _relationships_ - an association between two or more entities.

An _entity_ represents a class of objects in the real world. 

Claims about ERDs:

1. Simple and easily understood by nonspecialists.
2. easy conceptualised, the basic constructs are intuitive and provide a natural way of representing a user's information requirements 
3. a model that describes a world in terms of _entities_ and _attributes_ suitable for computer-naive end users.  But students may have difficulty grasping the concepts.

There is no standard ER diagram (ERD) model

- Originally developed by Chen

    Does not require thinking about how the database wil be implemented. Mostly used by universities for instruction
- Various authors, including Chen have refined the Chen model
- Barker/Oracle-like models are also commonly used

    Barker like model more closely tied with the [[relational-model]].

## Data models


## Definitions

_Database_ - a collection of related data

_structural constraints_ consist of two notions

- _cardinality_  - how many of one record type relate to another record type and vice versa
- _optionality_ - whether or not 
## Resources

Bagui, S., & Earp, R. (2003). *Database design using entity-relationship diagrams*. Auerbach.
Watt, A. (n.d.). *Database Design---2nd Edition*.

Watt, A. (n.d.). *Database Design---2nd Edition*.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[functional-dependencies]: functional-dependencies "Functional dependencies"
[normal-forms]: normal-forms "Normal Forms"
[relational-model]: relational-model "Relational model"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"