---
tags:
- CASA
- BAD
- scaffolding
- assemblages
- design
title: Contextually Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA)
type: index
---
Contextually Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA) is a mini-theory of digital learning design. It's related to the other mini-theories of [[bad-mindset]]/[[set-mindset]] and [[gather-weave]]. For more see this [[bad_set-casa-gather-weave|weaving together]] of these mini-theories.

See the [[casa-gallery]] for examples of CASA.

CASA are commonly seen as a type of [[shadow-system]].

## Definition

Collections of technologies and practices that transform digital learning and teaching technologies. Developed in opposition to the generic, hard technologies currently littering higher education. As the acronym suggests, CASA are designed to be 

|   |   |
| --- | --- | 
| <strong>C</strong>ontextually-**A**ppropriate | specific to a particular learning activity and its context, aims, learners, teachers, etc. |
| **S**caffolding | actively seek to support/enable learners and teachers in the tasks they need to complete as part of the activity. |
| **A**ssemblages | designed so that learners and teachers are more easily able to intermingle the CASA into their personal collection of knowledge, tools, and ways of working. |

- [[casa-design-principles]] - original design principles for CASA design

## Literature

Jones, D., Lawson, C., Beer, C., & Jones, H. (2018). [Context-Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages: A generative learning analytics platform for end-user development and participatory design](http://djon.es/blog/2018/02/02/context-appropriate-scaffolding-assemblages-a-generative-learning-analytics-platform-for-end-user-development-and-participatory-design/). In A. Pardo, K. Bartimote, G. Lynch, S. Buckingham Shum, R. Ferguson, A. Merceron, & X. Ochoa (Eds.), Companion Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge. Society for Learning Analytics Research.

Jones, D. (2019). [Exploring knowledge reuse in design for digital learning: Tweaks, H5P, CASA and constructive templates](https://djon.es/blog/2019/08/08/exploring-knowledge-reuse-in-design-for-digital-learning-tweaks-h5p-constructive-templates-and-casa/). In Y. W. Chew, K. M. Chan, & A. Alphonso (Eds.), Personalised Learning. Diverse Goals. One Heart. ASCILITE 2019 (pp. 139–148).

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[bad-mindset]: bad-mindset "The BAD (Bricolage, Affordances, Distribution) mindset"
[set-mindset]: ../Bricolage/set-mindset "The SET mindset"
[gather-weave]: gather-weave "Gather and weave"
[bad_set-casa-gather-weave|weaving together]: bad_set-casa-gather-weave "The relationships between BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave"
[casa-gallery]: casa-gallery "CASA Gallery"
[shadow-system]: shadow-system "Shadow (feral) system"
[casa-design-principles]: casa-design-principles "Design principles for Context-Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"