<!--
 Copyright (C) 2023 David Jones
 
 This file is part of memex.
 
 memex is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 (at your option) any later version.
 
 memex is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.
 
 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with memex.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
-->

# Literature and quotes mentioning gather/weave concepts 



The [[gather-weave]] ideas - at least in its metaphorical/analogical orgins - is evident in other literature, especially around L&T.  Aim here is to capture some of it. 

## Design for learning 

> I present a model of entangled pedagogy that encapsulates the **mutual shaping of technology**, teaching methods, purposes, values and context. Entangled pedagogy is collective, and agency is negotiated between teachers, students and other stakeholders. Outcomes are contingent on complex relations and cannot be determined in advance. (Fawns, 2022, ??)

> Student engagement can lead to a successful online learning experience when fit-for-purpose technology, quality instructional design, learner dispositions and skills, and educator knowledge and pedagogies specific to online teaching converge (Buckingham Shum and Deakin Crick, 2012; Gedera, 2014; Langub and Lokey-Vega, 2017), but learner perspectives remain critical to understanding how online learning can be improved. (Tualaulelei et al, 2022)

### [[epistemic-fluency]]

> Capable teacher-designers need to be able to draw together the right sets of tools, methods, ideas, data (design knowledge) for each circumstance, and they also need meta-level, strategic, knowledge that can guide them in deciding what kinds of knowledge, and ways of knowing, are most likely to help with the specific design problem at hand. Educational design often involves a high level of epistemic fluency – including an ability to find and use the most appropriate kind of knowledge for each part of the design task at hand (Goodyear 2015). Design typically involves a skilful appropriation and blending of different kinds of knowledge, drawn from a variety of sources. (Goodyear, Carvalho & Yeoman, 2021, p. 459)

## Assessment 

> Stealth assessment is seamlessly woven directly into the fabric of the instructional environment to support learning of important content and key competencies. (Shute, 2011, p. 504)


## References

Fawns, T. (2022). An Entangled Pedagogy: Looking Beyond the Pedagogy---Technology Dichotomy. *Postdigital Science and Education*, *4*(3), 711--728. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s42438-022-00302-7>

Goodyear, P., Carvalho, L., & Yeoman, P. (2021). Activity-Centred Analysis and Design (ACAD): Core purposes, distinctive qualities and current developments. *Educational Technology Research and Development*, *69*(2), 445--464. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s11423-020-09926-7>

Shute, V. J. (2011). Stealth assessment in computer-based games to support learning. In *Computer games and instruction* (pp. 503--524). IAP Information Age Publishing.

Tualaulelei, E., Burke, K., Fanshawe, M., & Cameron, C. (2022). Mapping pedagogical touchpoints: Exploring online student engagement and course design. *Active Learning in Higher Education*, *23*(3), 189--203. <https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787421990847>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[gather-weave]: gather-weave "Gather and weave"
[epistemic-fluency]: ../Learning/epistemic-fluency "Epistemic Fluency"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"