---
title: Shadow (feral) system 
type: note
tags:
    - casa
    - shadow-systems
---

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_system) offers this definition

> Shadow system is a term used in information services for any application relied upon for business processes that is not under the jurisdiction of a centralized information systems department. 

I've been a long-term developer of shadow systems. My [PhD thesis](https://djon.es/blog/research/phd-thesis/) arose out of the development of the Webfuse "shadow system". With its story being the source of publications within the shadow systems literature (e.g. [_The rise and fall of a shadow system: Lessons for Enterprise System Implementation](https://djon.es/blog/publications/the-rise-and-fall-of-a-shadow-system-lessons-for-enterprise-system-implementation/))

Ongoing development of shadow systems led to the [[bad_set-casa-gather-weave]] collection of ideas.

## Related sense-making

- [[reignite-the-shadow-system-argument]] - Reflections on a [Col Beer blog post](https://beerc.wordpress.com/2025/07/22/is-it-time-to-reignite-the-argument-around-shadow-systems/)

## Reignite the argument?

Lots of examples in L&T, all killed off by IT

IT argues SS are a risk with various types. But SS also offer benefits. Cybersecurity is the current big one. But there's a need for more than just prohibition.

Org (hierarchical) practice separates technology and education. But that limits qual of teaching and institutional initiatives. It's actually the amalgamation of the two from which value arises.

Suggests [shadow governance](https://governancepedia.com/2025/02/06/how-informal-power-shapes-organizations/) as part of the problem. e.g. committee stacking. Leading eventually to the victory of the IT ([[set-mindset]]) mindset

Recommendation is for orgs to reflect on the technology/education balance in L&T decision making. Also recommends reflection on shadow system governance balance between hard (rules-based compliance) and soft (principles-based and discretionary).

Finally links to shadow systems questions of academic freedom. Should academic freedom mean more of a leaning toward the soft approach. i.e. academic freedom means being free from unreasonable interference.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[bad_set-casa-gather-weave]: bad_set-casa-gather-weave "The relationships between BAD/SET, CASA, and Gather/Weave"
[reignite-the-shadow-system-argument]: ../../share/blog/2025/reignite-the-shadow-system-argument "reignite-the-shadow-system-argument"
[set-mindset]: ../Bricolage/set-mindset "The SET mindset"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"