---
title: Pretty Toys
type: quote
tags:
- purpose
---



> Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at

-- Henry David Thoreau, [*Walden* (1854)](https://literaturepage.com/read/walden-39.html)

## Reflections

### Shiny new things and on-going orchestration

The purpose we're working towards remain the same while we busily work on (or simply look to adopt) the latest shiny new thing.

!!! note "Implications of 'work' in that sentence"

    Work - interpreted as paid employment - seems increasingly inappropriate in this discussion. A pointer to the overly capitalist nature of our society. Where the "end" we're working toward is more about contributing to never-ending growth, rather than something more meaningful.

This quote also has me thinking about [[drons-technology|Arthur's definition of technology]] as the orchestration of phenomena for some purpose. Where phenomena includes other technologies. Are we just focusing on using different technologies to orchestrate and be orchestrated for the same purposes. New pretty toys.

### Whose purpose? What purpose?

What is an important purpose? Who decides? For whom?

For Thoreau, it appears to escape civilisation, industry and related. Harking perhaps back to capitalism and subsequently industry's focus on growth/profit. But apparently he doesn't offer an answer for this, leaving it to self-determination.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[drons-technology|Arthur's definition of technology]: ../nodt/drons-technology "Dron's take on technology"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"