---
title: "Learning statistical investigation checklist"
type: "note"
tags: teaching-mathematics, statistics
---

See also: [[statistical-investigation-checklist]], [[teaching-mathematics]]

A nascent attempt to develop a checklist/framework for scaffolding learning activities about statistical investigation.

The checklist is intended to help people answer a question like "What are the features of a statistical investigation?" or "How do I judge the quality of this statistical investigation?". Developed initially for [[mat081c-2024-u1-statistical-investigation]]

## Design

Options for structure

### Statistical investigation cycle

Perhaps use the following statistical investigation cycle

- initial questions (/claim);
- issues and planning;
- collecting, handling, checking data
- exploring, interpreting data in context

### CSER checklist

- planning and conducting
- displaying and analysing

### [4 phases](https://www.quanthub.com/10827-2/)

1. Pose a question/conclusion

    - What's the question or the claim
        - About what population? What do we know about that population
    - What was the answer?
    - Who posed the question and generate the answer?

2. Collect data

    - What data was gathered?
    - About what part of the population?
    - What type of data?
        - What type of questions
    - How was it gathered?
        - measurement, questionnaire, observation, etc

3. Analyse the data

    - Display collected data in appropriate format
    - Describe data collected referring to evidence in displays

4. Interpret the results

    - Make statement about implications or possible actions
    - Make conclusions on the basis of statistical investigations

### [Data detective](https://new.censusatschool.org.nz/resource/data-detective-poster/)

1. Problem

    Understand and define problem. Pose investigative questions

2. Plan

    Measures: what, why, when, where, "who", how. Ethics

3. Data

    Collect/source, manage, clean

4. Analysis

    Sort data, make tables, graphs, summaries. Describe and reason from data. Look for patterns

5. Conclusion

    Answer investigative questions. Communicate findings. Reflect and evaluate. New ideas



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[statistical-investigation-checklist]: statistical-investigation-checklist "Statistical Investigation Checklist (CSER)"
[teaching-mathematics]: ../teaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[mat081c-2024-u1-statistical-investigation]: ../../Implementation/2024/MAT081C/mat081c-2024-u1-statistical-investigation "MAT081C Planning for unit 1 - statistical investigation"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"