---
backlinks:
- title: CSER Maths in Schools - Practices and pedagogies
  url: /memex/sense/Teaching/Mathematics/cser-mooc/cser-practices-and-pedagogies.html
tags: teaching-mathematics, teaching, goompi-model
title: Reality, Abstraction, Mathematics, Reality (RAMR) cycle
type: note
---
A pedagogical framework for design for learning arising from a view of teaching being more powerful if it reveals the underlying structure of mathematics and relates it to the (mathematics) knowledge within local cultures/communities. A view based on the [[goompi-model]]

Four phases (RAMR)

1. Reality (How it relates to real life).

    - Identify local cultural and environmental knowledge that can be used to introduce the idea. 
    - Ensure existing knowledge prerequisite to the idea is known
    - Construct kinaesthetic activities that introduce the idea (and are relevant in terms of local experience)

2. Abstraction (Whole body and hands on activities).

    - Develop a sequence of representational activities (physical to virtual to pictorial materials to language to symbols)
    - Develop two-way connections between reality, representational activities, and mental models through body > hand > mind activities
    - Allow opportunities to create own representations, including language and symbols

3. Mathematics (Mathematics needed to do the task).

    - Enable students to appropriate and understand the formal language and symbols for the mathematical idea 
    - Facilitate students' practice to become familiar with all aspects of the idea. 
    - Construct activities to connect the idea to other mathematical ideas.

4. Reflection (How the students are going - but also more).

    - Lead discussion of the idea in terms of reality to enable students to validate and justify their own knowledge 
    - Set problems that apply the idea back to reality. 
    - Organise activities so that students can extend the idea (use reflective strategies - being flexible, generalising, reversing, and changing parameters)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9FAntCEMyjQ?si=MFs7djU1Lp2K_J9c" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Comments

Strong echoes of other practices, including (but certainly not limited to) [[enactive-mathematics-pedagogy]] and [[cra]]; [[effective-pedagogy-in-mathematics]] 

## References

Carter, M., Cooper, T., & Anderson, R. (2016). Teachers' Use of a Pedagogical Framework for Improvement in Mathematics Teaching: Case Studies from YuMi Deadly Maths. *Opening Up Mathematics Education Research*, 166--173.

Nutchey, D., Grant, E., & English, L. (2016). Experiencing mathematics for connected understanding: Using the RAMR framework for accelerating students' learning. *Opening Up Mathematics Education Research*, 495--502.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[goompi-model]: goompi-model "Goompi model"
[enactive-mathematics-pedagogy]: ../enactive-mathematics-pedagogy "Enactive mathematics pedagogy"
[cra]: cra "Concrete, Representation (Pictorial), Abstract (CRA)"
[effective-pedagogy-in-mathematics]: ../effective-pedagogy-in-mathematics "Effective pedagogy in mathematics"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"