---
title: "Statistical Investigation Checklist (CSER)"
type: "note"
tags: cser, teaching-mathematics
---

See also: [[cser-cia-statistics]], [[teaching-mathematics]], [[AC9M7ST03]], [[AC9M7ST02]], [[AC9M8ST01]], [[AC9M8ST02]], [[AC9M8ST04]]

Items from a checklist provided by CSER

## Year 7 & 8 checklist

### Planning and conducting

- [ ] My statistical investigation focus has been checked with the teacher.
- [ ] At least one question will collect qualitative data.
- [ ] At least one question will collect discrete quantitative data.
- [ ] At least one question will collect continuous quantitative data.
- [ ] I have considered how I will acquire my data.
- [ ] I have considered how I will record and represent my data.
- [ ] I have considered the privacy of the participants' data.

### Displaying and analysing

- [ ] I have identified any outliers in my data and decided whether they should be included or excluded.
- [ ] I can explain how the inclusion of outliers may change my results.
- [ ] I have used appropriate graphical representations for the types of data I have collected.
- [ ] I have calculated relevant measures of centre and spread.
- [ ] I have analysed and interpreted the data I collected.
- [ ] I have communicated the results in the context of my investigation.

## Additional Year 8 checklist

### Planning and conducting

- [ ] I have considered the size needed for my sample.
- [ ] I have considered the ways that bias may impact my sample and made adjustments to minimise the impact.

### Displaying and analysing

- [ ] I have compared different sub-sets of my data and can explain the effect of sample size on the variation of results.
- [ ] I have considered the reliability of my results when making conclusions about the population.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[cser-cia-statistics]: cser-cia-statistics "CSER Statistics - Content in Action"
[teaching-mathematics]: ..%2Fteaching-mathematics "Teaching Mathematics"
[AC9M7ST03]: ..%2F..%2FCurriculum%2Fv9%2FMathematics%2FAC9M7ST03 "AC9M7ST03"
[AC9M7ST02]: ..%2F..%2FCurriculum%2Fv9%2FMathematics%2FAC9M7ST02 "AC9M7ST02"
[AC9M8ST01]: ..%2F..%2FCurriculum%2Fv9%2FMathematics%2FAC9M8ST01 "AC9M8ST01"
[AC9M8ST02]: ..%2F..%2FCurriculum%2Fv9%2FMathematics%2FAC9M8ST02 "AC9M8ST02"
[AC9M8ST04]: ..%2F..%2FCurriculum%2Fv9%2FMathematics%2FAC9M8ST04 "AC9M8ST04"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"