---
name: "Data informed teaching"
type: note
tags: [teaching]
---

See also: [[teaching]]

How can data be used in schools to analyse and improve student learning?

## QCoT research digest: data in schools


Sources of data about student achievement

- standardised, norm-referenced, criterion-referenced tests 
- questioning in class 
- performance and standards-based assessments 
- teacher-made tests, projects, quizzes 
- teachers’ observations 
- student work.

Earlier mentions how "educational data were slow to turn around" but digital technology has helped. But then most of the sources above are not readily available in digital form, and typically there is some complexity in weaving contextually together the disparate data sources.

References work in WA on "Data Club" - stepping toward PIRAC

> There is evidence that the best support for interpreting data is a combination of information about data analysis and representation strategies together with application of this information to participants’ own data. (Wildy, 2003)

But at the same stage identifies the driver "accountability and data are at the heart of contemporary reform efforts worldwide" (Earl 2005), but pointing out the complementary/more agentic framing as "Becoming inquiry-minded and data literate are major changes in practice that are consistent with the notion of professional learning communities and that warrant concerted attention to new shared learning" (Earl 2005)

Uses case study that reinforces benefits from using data as part of a PLC

And of course the promises "Significant challenges have been overcome through the devleopment of state-of-the-art information and communication system (ICT) that bring complex data to the finger tips of staff in schools and regions in highly usable forms" (Smith 2005)

Examples given are focused on overall results. Coarse data that fails to capture the complexity of the lived experience

### Purposes for using data

Argues that for teachers, this is improving students' learning. Using literature to position it as differently as from 

- the sociologist (seeking to undrestand patterns of participation)
- the policy analyst (understand the impact of policy)

i.e. echoing [[exploring-drons-definition-of-educational-technology|Dron's take on ed tech]], it's all about the purpose for which the technology is being shaped.

Cites Hattie as arguing for data/evidence needs to be located in the classroom. The argument being that the teacher is the "major agent that influences student and learning". But which also points to an argument for a "teacher-shared language about the achievement progression". See table below from Hattie (2003)

> The reason for locating the power of data to enhance student outcomes at the teacher level comes from the many recent studies on the epicentre of causal effects on learning: the teachers. (Hattie, 2005)

| Source | % impact |
| --- | --- |
| Student | 50 |
| Teacher | 30 |
| Home, peers, schools and principals | 20 |

> A characteristic of good data is its potential to help teachers make good decisions about children’s learning. Data tell a story. ... The two questions uppermost in teachers’ minds should be: What does it all mean and; how can we use it to improve children’s achievements?

### Does performance feedback lead to improvement?

Argument seems to be it's complex, but it helps if

- feedback directs attention to an achieveable gap
- formative assessment/[[assessment-for-learning]] is key, but "current practices are week" -- from 2003 observation


## References

QCoT. (2008). *Data informed teaching* (QCoT Research Digest). QCoT. <https://cdn.qct.edu.au/pdf/Research%20Periodicals/QCTResearchDigest2008-3.pdf>

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching]: teaching "Teaching"
[exploring-drons-definition-of-educational-technology|Dron's take on ed tech]: ..%2F..%2Fshare%2Fblog%2F2021%2Fexploring-drons-definition-of-educational-technology "exploring-drons-definition-of-educational-technology"
[assessment-for-learning]: Assessment%2Fassessment-for-learning "assessment-for-learning"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"