---
backlinks:
- title: 'Teaching '
  url: /sense/Teaching/teaching.html
tags: teaching
title: First Nations
type: note
---
Collection of reflections and resources on connecting and working with First Nations peoples and cultures in the context of teaching.

## Resources

[Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies (AIATSIS)](https://aiatsis.gov.au/)

- [The Little Red Yellow Black resources](https://aiatsis.gov.au/education/curriculum-resources/little-red-yellow-black-resources) - curriculum resources (being updated) for a book that introduces the cultures/histories of Australia's First peoples.
- [Guide to evaluating and selecting educational resources](https://aiatsis.gov.au/education/guide-evaluating-and-selecting-education-resources)


Other resources

- ACARA [guidelines/principles for ATSI cross-curriculum priority](https://www.australiancurriculum.edu.au/media/3739/guiding-principles.pdf)
- [QCAA protocols](https://www.qcaa.qld.edu.au/about/k-12-policies/aboriginal-torres-strait-islander-perspectives/protocols)
- [Terminology guide](https://www.narragunnawali.org.au/about/terminology-guide)

## Connecting with First National Australian Communities

Summary of PDF prepared by/for [[maths-in-schools]]

- Discover if the specific community has their own protocol for engagement.
- Following offered as consistent principles to support mathematics teachers 

### Key principles

- Respect

    - Respect and protect knowledge and cultural expressions of First Nations peoples of Australia 
    - Respect the rights of First Nations Peoples of Australia to self-determination 
    - Respect and recognise Indigenous cultural and intellectual property

- Relationships

    - Build relationships by developing partnerships with local families and organisations 
    - Build and maintain ongoing consultation with First Nations Australian knowledge holders and keepers, custodians and stakeholders
    - Base relationships on reciprocity between education providers and communities 
    - Commit to long-term improvement and partnership
    - Engage with First Nations Australian stakeholders with a focus on cultural safety 
    - Visit local First Nations Australian cultural centres or contact your local council.

- Interpretation and integrity.

    - Recognise First Nations Peoples of Australia as the primary guardians and interpreters of their cultures. Any cultural information or materials that you use in the classroom should reflect cultural values and customary laws. 
    - When choosing cultural material from the classroom, including texts or images, consider how this affects the First Nations People of Australia who are subjects of the material 
    - Before using cultural material, ensure that it does not depict or expose confidential, personal, or sensitive information and that it is non-secret and non-sacred. User material that empowers First Nations Peoples of Australia and reflects cultural identity. Seeks permission from the person who owns the material. 
    - In many First Nations Australian communities, the reproduction of a deceased person's name and image is offensive. Consult with the relevant family or community so that you observe appropriate protocols. 
    - Ensure that you give appropriate credit or acknowledgement for First Nations Peoples of Australia and their achievements, contributions, and role in the development of any cultural material you have done for the classroom.

### APST 7 guidance

Engage with Indigenous parents, families and community in two-way dialogue: be a listener, be a learner, be an advocate, be a sharer of knowledge. 

7.1 Consider Indigenous parents’ own experiences in schooling and in learning mathematics and build their confidence to talk positively with their children about mathematics reconciling past experiences with current aspirations. 

7.2 Work with Indigenous education officers as they can be critical to building strong connections, resilience and trust between schools and their communities and families. Ensure they have a central role in curriculum development. 

7.3 Challenge commonly held beliefs about mathematics as following a curriculum, or as culture-free. Promote mathematics as a living human endeavour that is part of the fabric of everyday life. 

7.4 Provide the community with opportunities to have voice and ownership and make decisions about curriculum to ensure that learning experiences have family and community significance.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[maths-in-schools]: Mathematics/maths-in-schools "Maths in Schools Online: Year 7 - 10 course"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"