# My Teaching Philosophy

Nascent attempt to articulate my teaching philosophy. Initially focused on listing ideas that resonate.

## Informing ideas

- CAS, wicked design problems, emergence
- Growth and [[mathematical-mindset]]
- [[what-do-mathematicians-do]]

## Shades of gray, CAS and wicked design problems

Teaching occurs within a complex adaptive system. It is a wicked design problem.


## Boaler's Mathematical Mindset and related

5 messages math teachers should share with students early

1. I believe in every one of them, there is no such thing as a math brain or a math gene, and I expect all of them to achieve at the highest levels.
2. I love mistakes. Every time they make a mistake their brain grows.
3. Failure and struggle do not mean that they cannot do math—these are the most important parts of math and learning.
4. I don’t value students working quickly; I value their working in depth, creating interesting pathways and representations.
5. I love student questions and will put these onto posters that I hang on the walls for the whole class to think about

Norms to reinforce

1. Everyone can learn math to the highest levels.
2. Mistakes are valuable.
3. Questions are really important.
4. Math is about creativity and making sense.
5. Math is about connections and communicating.
6. Depth is much more important than speed.
7. Math class is about learning, not performing

## Biesta

As [described here](https://www.philosophy-of-education.org/blog/book-reviews-archived/book-review-the-rediscovery-of-teaching/)

> In Biesta’s words: “The educational task consists in arousing the desire in another human being for wanting to exist in and with the world in an grown-up way, that is as subject” (p. 7, italics in original). Being-a-subject and adulthood mean to be able to shape the world together with others, without giving up the world due to excessive creative will or, conversely, abandoning any creative will and even shattering oneself as a subject. Biesta writes: “The middle section between world destruction and self-destruction is the field on which an adult form of (co) being with others and others can be reached” (p. 15). Adulthood also includes an elaboration of one’s desires encouraged (but not enforced) by pedagogical actions and the experience of the difference between the subjectively desired and the generally desired. In this respect, education is centrally about interruptions of one’s own state of mind (interruption), it creates a sanctuary for contemplation (suspension), and offers support and assistance (sustenance) for those to be educated.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[mathematical-mindset]: Mathematics/mathematical-mindset "Mathematical Mindset"
[what-do-mathematicians-do]: Mathematics/what-do-mathematicians-do "What do mathematicians do?"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"