# Teaching as interweaving

See also: [[teaching]], [[gather-weave]], [[teaching-as-gather-weave-augment]]

Nascent idea that teaching is usefully conceptualised as focusing on the interweaving of (very) different strands together. Echoing some of the [[gatherers-weavers-augmenters]] work and [[casa]] idea.

Godino & Burgos (2020)
> We argue that the learning optimization and achievement of an appropriate didactic intervention require interweaving in a dialectical and complex way, the teacher’s moments of knowledge transmission with the student’s inquiry moments.
> ...It consists of recognizing the onto-semiotic complexity of mathematical and scientific knowledge [2–28], which must be taken into account in instructional processes intending to achieve the objective of optimizing student learning.

## Differing purposes - effective action overlooked

Godino & Burgos (2020) use the example of research activities into learning and teaching where the focus tends to be scientific description or explanation. This focus "predominates against the technological component of effective action on educational practice" (Gondino & Burgos, 2020, p. 6).

## Possible threads

| Thread | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Curricular theories | articulate the epistemic and ecological facets? |
| learning theories | cognitive and affective |
| instructional design theories | practice of teaching |

Each of these have their own (possibly related) threads. e.g. instructional design theories might argue for different types of didactic interaction: transmission (objectivism) or student inquiry and autonomy (constructivism)

# References

Godino, J. D., & Burgos, M. (2020). Interweaving Transmission and Inquiry in Mathematics and Sciences Instruction. In K. O. Villalba-Condori, A. Aduríz-Bravo, J. Lavonen, L.-H. Wong, & T.-H. Wang (Eds.), *Education and Technology in Sciences* (pp. 6--21). Springer International Publishing. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45344-2\_2](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45344-2_2)

Liljedahl, P., Chernoff, E., & Zazkis, R. (2007). Interweaving mathematics and pedagogy in task design: A tale of one task. *Journal of Mathematics Teacher Education*, *10*(4), 239--249. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10857-007-9047-7>


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[teaching]: teaching "Teaching"
[gather-weave]: ..%2FCASA%2Fgather-weave "Gather and Weave"
[teaching-as-gather-weave-augment]: teaching-as-gather-weave-augment "teaching-as-gather-weave-augment"
[gatherers-weavers-augmenters]: ..%2FPaper-Ideas%2Fgatherers-weavers-augmenters "Gatherers, Weavers and Augmenters: Three principles for dynamic and sustainable delivery of quality learning and teaching"
[casa]: ..%2FCASA%2Fcasa "Contextually Appropriate Scaffolding Assemblages (CASA)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"